   1  
Research Data Management (RDM)  policy of Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR)  
Versi on: 1.0 
Date:  14th of August  2020  
 
1. PREAMBLE  
The Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) recognizes the fundamental importance of research data and the 
management of related administrative records in maintaining quality research and scientific integrity . 
In addition , the EUR  committed to the FAIR data principles (2016) and is pursuing the highest standards.  
The EUR  acknowledges that : 
Correct and easily r etrievable research data are the foundation of and integral to every research project. 
Research data  are necessary for the verification and defence of research processes and results.  
RDM policies are highly valuable to current and future researchers.  
Research data have a long -term value for research and academia, with the potential for widespread use in 
society.  
 
2. DEFINITIONS  
Research  is any creative and systematically performed work with the goal of furthering knowledge, 
including discoveries regarding people, culture and society, in addition to the use of such knowledge for 
new applications.  
Researchers  refers to all research -active  members of an institution including employees  and doctoral 
candidates. Persons not directly affiliated with an institution, but who, for purposes of research, make use 
of or are physically present at the institution, are also included in the term. Visitin g researchers or 
collaborators  (including hired staff)  may also be expected to comply with this policy.  
Research data  refers to all information (independent of form or presentation) needed to support or 
validate the development, results, observations or f indings of a research project, including contextual 
information  and secondary data (produced by someone other than the researcher) . Research data include 
all materials which are created in the course of academic work, including digitisation, records, source 
research, experiments, measurements, surveys and interviews. This includes software and code.  
Research data can take on several  forms with varying levels of access, including open data, restricted data 
and closed data.  
During the lifespan of a research project, research data can exist as:  
• Raw data,  
o primary data: information from measurements or observations, recorded as images, 
video footage, paper surveys, computer files, etc.  for the purpose of research projects in 
which EUR researchers participate.  
o external  data: research data made available to EUR staff  and having received, for this use, 
licensed access to use as a source - but the rights are kept fully outside EUR (such as 
statistical, financial or survey data).  
o secondary data can be re -used primary data or external data.  
• Processed data: results (including negative and inconclusive results) after data processing 
(recoded, visu alised, categorised, aggregated, etc.).  
• Published data: information distributed to people beyond those involved in the research project 
(shared data, published data and archived data).  
 
    August 20, 2020  
  2 3. JURISDICTION/PREMISES AND PRINCIPLES  
This policy for the manageme nt of research data applies to all researchers and other staff active at the EUR. 
This policy was approved by the EUR Executive Board  on 25th of August 2020 . And takes into effect on 
January 1st 2021.  
Legislation or, in cases when research is funded by a third party, any agreements made with parties 
concerning intellectual property rights, access rights and the storage of research data take precedence over 
this policy.  
 
This policy framework elaborates on existing frameworks, which include (but  is not limited to):  
 
Legislation  
• Databankenwet  
• Auteurswet  
• Wet op het hoger onderwijs en wetenschappelijk onderzoek (WHW)  
• Uitvoeringswet Algemene verordening gegevensbescherming (UAVG)  
• Wet medisch -wetenschappelijk onderzoek met mensen (WMO Incl. Directives)  
 
VSNU agreements  
• CAO VSNU  
• Netherlands Code of Conduct for Scientific Integrity  
  
This policy is additional to:  
• EUR Reglement Gebruik Internet en ICT-faciliteiten  
• EUR CISO Data Classification Model  
• EUR operationeel informatiebeveiligingsbeleid  
• EUR richtlijn bewaartermijn  
• Baseline protocol RDM for EUR research  
• EUR Faculty policies and guidelines  
• Good Clinical Practice (GCP) guidelines  
• Any agreements made with third parties (project or consortium partners, data suppliers, data 
processors, publishers/journals, etc.)  
 
4. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS  
Intellectual property rights (IPR) are defined in the work contract between a researcher and his or her 
employer. IPRs might also be defined through further agreements (e.g. grant or consortia agreements). In 
cases where the IPR belong to the institution that employs the researcher, the institution has the right to 
choose how to publish and share the data.  
    August 20, 2020  
  3 5. HANDLING RESEARCH DATA  
It is important to preserve the integrity of research data. Research data must be stored in a correct, 
complete, unadulterated and reliable manner. Furthermore, they must be identifiable, accessible, 
traceable, interoperable, and whenever possible, availa ble for subsequent use.  
Data should be provided using appropriate (discipline) standards following FAIR principles  (as much as 
possible) . 
Research data should be stored and made available for use in a trusted  repository or archiving system, 
preferably a trusted digital repository with certification, such as Core Trust Seal.  
5.1 STORAGE AND RETENTION  
Research data and records are to be stored and made available according to intellectual property laws or the 
requirements of third -party funders, within the parameters of applicable legal or contractual requirements, e.g. EU 
restrictions on where identifia ble personal data may be stored.  
Research data of future historical interest and the administrative records accompanying research projects should 
also be preser ved. 
The minimum archive duration for research data and records is 10 years after either the as signment of a persistent 
identifier or publication of a related work following project completion, whichever is later.  
5.2 IDENTIFICATION AND DOCUMENTATION  
Data that will be retained should be provided with persistent identifiers.  
Sufficient metadata shoul d be provided to enable finding, validating and repurposing the data.  
Metad ata should be provided using appropriate (discipline) standards following FAIR principles  (as much as 
possible) . 
At least the following aspects should be documented:  
• The research question or hypothesis  
• The research method(s) chosen  
• The list of known people for whom the data is accessible  and under which conditions  
• Documentation of the actions taken with the data and the software used  
 
5.3 LICENSE AND USE  
In compliance with  intellectual property rights, and if no third -party rights, legal requirements or property 
laws prohibit it, research data should be assigned a licence for open use.  
Adherence to citation norms and requirements regarding publication and future research should be 
assured, sources of subsequently used data explicitly traceable, and original sources can be acknowledged.  
5.4 DESTRUCTION  
In the event that research data and  records are to be deleted or destroyed, either after expiration of the required 
archive duration or for legal or ethical reasons, such action will be carried out only after considering all legal and 
ethical perspectives. The interests and contractual stip ulations of third -party funders and other stakeholders, 
employees and partner participants in particular, as well as the aspects of confidentiality and security, must be 
taken into consideration when decisions about retention and destruction are made. Any action taken must be 
documented and be accessible for possible future audit. If persistent identifiers where assigned the metadata 
should not be deleted or destroyed but updated with the date and rationale for deletion or destruction of the 
research data.  
    August 20, 2020  
  4 6. ROLES, RESPONSIBILITIES AND MANDATES  
The responsibility for research data management during and after a research project lies with Erasmus 
University Rotterdam and its researchers and should be compliant with codes for the responsible conduct 
of resea rch. 
 
6.1 EUR EXECUTIVE BOARD IS ACCOUNTA BLE FOR:  
The Executive Board bears final responsibility for the duties of care as stated in the Netherlands Code 
of Conduct for Research Integrity. By means of this policy and other related EUR guidelines, 
empowering organisational units, providing appropriate means and resources for research support 
operations, the upkeep of services, infrastructures, employee education and monitoring practices it 
will facilitate and stimulate good research data management at EUR.  
 
6.1.1 ACADEMIC AFFAIRS  (AA)  IS RESPONSIBLE FOR:  
Managing risks and revisions of this RDM policy.  
Align ing this RDM policy  with other EUR policies . 
 
6.1.2 ERASMUS RESEARCH SERVICES (ERS) IS ACCOUNTABLE FOR:  
Managing the EUR Digital Competence Center that will provide the 1st line of RDM support and 
function as a central hub to connect all RDM services and expertise at EUR and other DCC’s.  
Coordinating the 2nd line of RDM support provided by CIO, IT, Library and other EUR staff.  
 
6.1.3 CIO, ERS, IT and LIBRARY AR E RESPONSIBLE FOR:  
Facilitating good data management by providing a suitable research infrastructure.  
Providing 2nd line of support.  
Ensuring that all data, software codes and research materials, published or unpublished, can be 
securely stored for the per iod indicated by the depositor.  
Ensuring that, as far as possible, data, software codes, protocols, research materials and 
corresponding metadata can be stored permanently.  
Ensuring that it is clear how data, software codes and research material can be acc essed.  
 
6.2 RESEARCH DIRECTORS ARE ACCOUNTA BLE FOR:  
Faculty policies and guidelines  in case these exist . 
Research infrastructure being  used according to good practices.   
Ensuring that, in accordance with the FAIR principles, data is open and accessible to the extent possible 
and data remains confidential to the extent necessary.  
Ensuring that all data, software codes and research materials, published or unpublished , are managed 
and securely stored for the period appropriate to the discipline(s ) and methodology concerned with a 
minimum of 10 years.  
 
6.3 RESEARCH LEADERS ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR  
Group Data Management protocols or strategies to be reviewed by a faculty or university data 
steward . 
 
6.4 RESEARCHERS ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR:  
Collectin g, storing, documentin g, archiving,  providing  access to , or proper destruction of , research data 
and research -related records. This includes the definition of protocols and responsibilities within a joint 
research project. Such information should be included in a Data Management Plan (DMP), or in 
protocols that explicitly define the collection, administration, integrity, confidentiality, storage, use and 
publication of data that will be employed.  
Planning to enable, wherever possible, the continued use of data  even after project completion. This 
includes defining post -project usage rights, with the assignation of appropriate licences, as well as the 
clarification of data storage and archiving in the case of discontinued involvement at the EUR. 
Project Data Management Plans to be reviewed by a n EUR  data steward . 
Registration of research projects at the proposal stage . 
 
    August 20, 2020  
  5 6.5 FACULTY RESEARCH S UPPORT  IS RESPONSIBLE FOR:  
Develop ing and maintain ing custom (discipline) protocols in line with AVG and Code of Conduct.  
Provid ing 1st line of support (hands -on & advice).  
Provid ing input and feedback for EUR principles & guideline s. 
 
7. VALIDITY  
This policy will be reviewed and updated as required by the E xecutive Board of the Erasmus University 
Rotterdam.  First evaluation is planned in the first half  of 202 2. 