1 DATA MANAGEMENT POLICY Department Cultural Anthrop ology Development Sociology (CA DS) 
Leiden, April 2019  
  
Introduction:  
The department of CA DS adheres to the Leiden University Research Data Management Regulations and to 
the international principles for FAIR data (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, Reusable), to the extent that 
these apply to processed  data only (see below under ‘What are data?’) and to the extent that the processed 
data can be rendered interpretable to others.  
These principles translat e into 7 elements for a data management policy:  
1. Research data are considered public goods, created using public money and should therefore be 
open access available as much as possible.   
2. Data should be stored safely and sustainably to enable the protectio n of privacy, verification and 
reuse.  
3. Privacy should be guaranteed with utmost care to ensure the safety of research participants and 
because the maintenance of relationships of trust with research participants is fundamental to our 
research.   
4. Transparen cy about the use and storage of data will be given through a Data Management Plan 
(DMP).  
5. Data will also be used and stored according to the GDPR rules and guidelines as interpreted by 
Leiden University and by (relevant) financing organizations (like NWO).  
6. Interpretability: anthropological data are not stored in excel sheets or databases, but in the form of 
lengthy written texts that span multiple hand -written notebooks or digital files (e.g. word docs, 
photos, film, audio -recordings). These data require co ntextualization to be intelligible to other 
researchers because: a. they reflect a human relationship between researcher and research 
participants that shapes the context in which the data was gathered; b. each notebook, or text, 
cannot be easily understoo d without triangulation across multiple notebooks/devices/personal 
archives, which cannot all be made available due to the risk of breach of privacy (lack of 
anonymity), and c. without deep knowledge of the research context, of the broader social 
situation /conversation/physical location in which the notes were gathered, and of the specific 
research participants the data cannot be  
accurately interpreted.  
7. Limitations to the FAIR principles or policy will be transparently explained in the DMP .  
 
Commonly accepted anthropological procedures:  
In view of the specific relationship of recorders/researchers of anthropological/ethnographic data and the 
recorded/research participants, many anthropological research projects involve a certain degree of co -
ownership of data by the research participants. In the case of co -ownership:   
 
• the data gathered in an anthropological/ethnographic setting are held in trust by the researcher to 
protect the interests of people studied or be returned to them (if possible), unless othe rwise 
stipulated. When research is being done among multiple parties in conflict with each other (or 
where it would violate individual's privacy to return data to a collective/group), the data will be 
held in trust by the researcher;  
• the data being held i n trust will be safely stored and preserved by individual researchers until their 
retirement from actual research reporting, when they will be returned to people studied, 
destroyed or placed in an appropriate archive (see below), unless otherwise stipulate d;         2 • third parties cannot have access to unprocessed ethnographic research data except in the strictest 
confidentiality, and only when this access does not compromise the safety of the research 
participants, unless otherwise stipulated;  
• Where co -own ership is applicable, researchers shall properly and transparently record the 
intended procedures in the DMP (and amend the DMP to reflect this should the need arise during 
or after fieldwork).  
  
 
 
Who:   
The data management policy of CA DS applies to all researchers working on projects that are initiated by the 
department and/or conducted under the aegis of the department. This includes retired colleagues, fellows, 
and scholars who bring their own projects into the department.   
  
What are anthropological data:  
CADS follows the definition of data used by all universities, the KNAW and NWO at the Science Europe Data 
Glossary ( http://sedataglossary.shoutwiki.com/wiki/Research_data ).  
By that definition research data include: laboratory notebooks; field note books; primary research data 
(including research data in hardcopy or in computer readable form); questionnaires; audiotapes; video files; 
models; photographs; films; test responses. Research collections may include slides; artefacts; specimens; 
samples. Pr ovenance information about the data might also be included: the how, when and where it was 
collected, and with what means (for example, with which instrument or measuring device). The software 
code used to generate, annotate or analyse the data might also be included, where applicable. For the 
purposes of ethnographic research, however, it is essential to distinguish between “raw” data and data 
processed for audience consumption: the first category (which includes primary data such as field 
notebooks) conta ins personalized data and cultural properties that are never anonomysed and can 
therefore not be openly accessed. Providing access to personalized, and possibly sensitive, "raw" data could 
harm the people studied (see American Anthropological Association C ode of Ethics 
http://www.aaanet.org/profdev/ethics) ). The distinction between “raw” and “processed” data differs, 
depending on whether the audience in question is interested in mere verification, public ation or reuse. The 
making of that distinction, and therefore the providing access to the data concerned, is the ethical 
responsibility of the researcher.  
 
In the process of anthropological/ethnographic research specifically, social relationships with res earch 
participants are usually dynamic, qualitative and personal and require constant revision of the standards of 
research participants’ privacy and cultural property. Researchers are responsible for protecting the research 
participants’ interests, by kee ping the data in a well -documented secluded setting unless they have been 
processed for third party consumption.  
 
Ethnographic data is usually gathered in note form based on a close and personal interaction between 
researcher and research participant. The  data is not stored in the form of words or numbers in a database. 
Ethnographic notes are stored in hand -written notebooks and/or digital text files. Because ethnographic 
data contains a great deal of information about people's lives, even if the notes are  technically 
anonymized, anonymity could potentially be breached if whole sets of notes were viewed together and 
triangulated with each other. The researcher therefore must carefully select which data can be made 
public. The impossibility of making all  the raw data available, means that the available data might not be 
transferable or useful/decipherable to other researchers except through direct conversation with the 3 researcher.  Additionally, three types of research notes may be kept in one place: observation of research 
participants, interview notes, analytical thoughts of the researcher, and personal experiences and feelings 
of the researcher. In anthropological research, the thought process and position of the researcher is 
considered relevant informatio n for the accurate contextualization and interpretation of research 
materials, and as such, this information is often written down or typed together with observational field 
notes and only some of this highly private information is acceptable for public ci rculation. The 
inextricability of anthropological field notes in which all of the conversations (private and public) as well as 
the reflexive analytical thoughts of the researcher and research participants are maintained in one set of 
notebooks or files, m eans that one of the most important data management tasks is determining which 
data  can be publicly shared (=made into processed data for dissemination) and which cannot. The process 
of choosing what data can be shared and what cannot be, requires knowled ge of the field, of the research 
participants, and of the specific moment, context and human relationship between researcher and 
research participant that brought the data into being. Only the researcher has this knowledge.  
 
Data storage during research:   
During ethnographic fieldwork, extra measures may be necessary to protect data using encryption software 
and extra passwords on laptops and external hard discs. During research, researchers make sure that all the 
digital data they collect are systematically backed up. Non- digital data (notebooks, sensitive paper files) 
should be stored behind lock and key when not in use and should not be left unattended when in use. If 
these precautions are not possible during fieldwork, the DMP should explain. Research participants may 
sometimes rightfully claim both raw and processed data as their own as long as this does not breach the 
privacy or safety of the research participants. Decisions about protection and sharing differ depending on 
the particular professional and ethical standards upheld at that moment in the evolving relationship 
between researcher, research participants, and audience. How to deal with data during fieldwork is project 
specific and is described and argued in the DMP in so far as this can be pre dicted before the completion of 
research.  
  
Depositing data after research:    
For reasons of verification, publication and possible reuse, researchers can process data by anonymization 
and/or making a selection of data that can be stored or made public af ter completion of the research. The 
DMP anticipates on the reasons for specific forms of storage in so far as that is possible before completing 
the research. Anthropological research is often hard to divide into clearly delineated projects with a start 
date and an end date. Instead, anthropologists tend to build their knowledge of a subject or a group of 
people continuously over decades or over a whole career. As such data are usually stored and maintained 
long- term. The DMP should specify what kind of dat a will be stored, for how long it will be stored, where it 
will be stored, and for what purposes (e.g. continued research reporting, re -use in future research). The 
researcher should ensure that these storage intentions are known to the research participan ts. Both the 
storage and the sharing of data should comply with the GDPR regulations (= no sharing of personal 
information without consent, the researcher has weighed the relative right to privacy of the research 
participants carefully against the public interest served by the research and has ensured that raw and 
processed data are stored in safe, or the safest possible, locations).   
 
Anthropological research is often of great archival value and researchers should consider whether their data 
can be safely  archived after the end of a research project, upon retirement or after the researcher's death. 
Not all data will be safe for public archiving, but the public interest potentially served by making 
ethnographic archives (partially) available at the end of a  research project or researcher's career should be 4 considered prior to the destruction of research data. Where such archival plans differ from those originally 
included in the DMP , an amended DMP should be submitted.  
 
Data storage where and how?   
Digital data have to be stored sustainably and safely either on encrypted or password protected hard -drive 
and devices and/or in a Trusted Digital Repository with a DSA (Data Seal of Approval). Data Networking and 
Archiving Services (DANS) is considered a trusted p arty for Data Storage as are Leiden University virtual 
research networks and storage facilities. Non- digital data (notebooks, paper files) are stored behind lock 
and key when not in use. Researchers will take care not to leave devices or notebooks unattend ed when in 
use. 
  
Data Management Plan (DMP):    
For the DMP CA DS uses an amended version of the LU -format (in appendix).  
  
Who is responsible:   
Every researcher is primarily responsible for the Data Management of his/her own research project and for 
the implementation of the activities described in the DMP . A DMP should be part of the research design 
and the researcher should evaluate and adjust it on a regular basis (how does the backup protocol work? 
Has the amount of data changed? Are new formats being  used? Are new precautions necessary given the 
nature of the data being gathered?). The DMP should be viewed as a living document and the researcher 
should feel free to amend it and re -submit it at any time as the research progresses. If the researcher's d ata 
management practices change during research, as they usually do in anthropology, the researcher can 
simply amend the DMP and re -submit.  
In projects, the project coordinator is responsible and may appoint one of the researchers or eventually a 
member o f the supporting staff as data manager for the project.   
A university or faculty data steward can help with advice and support by the implementation of data 
management at the institutional level.  
 
Cloud services:   
CADS researchers shall be careful in using cloud services for data storage. Generally only services that are 
approved by the university for this purpose should be used.  
 
The department of Cultural Anthropology and Development Sociology states that: 
 
Respecting in principle  
 
  The general regula tions of Leiden University on Research Data Management (RDM), version 
April 19, 2016  
 
Considering the following basic principles of the profession 
  
• The recording of anthropological/ethnographic data, whether in written, oral or visual form, is 
a dynamic p rocess of collaboration to which research participants have given and continue to 
give their consent during fieldwork (this does not imply their agreement with findings), 
including conditions pertaining to analysis and publication  
 
• The changing relationshi ps of confidentiality and mutual trust established during this research 
process are of utmost importance in providing, collecting and processing research data  5  
• Researchers should continue to treat data as collaborative for as long as they work with this 
material, acknowledging that these data –  in variable gradations – may be co -owned by 
researchers and the researched  
 
• Individual researchers have the duty to subordinate the sharing of data with third parties 
(including other scientists, also in cases of in vestigating fraud) to the recognition of the 
collaborative nature of data  
 
In line with  
 
8. the internationally accepted and leading statement of the American Anthropological 
Association on Ethics http://www .aaanet.org/profdev/ethics  
 
9. articles 2, 16 and 17 of the Research Data Management Regulations of Leiden University  
 
 
With the consent of the Faculty Board of Social Sciences, has decided to adjust the Regulations by  
10. establishing a circumscribed approach in making research data findable, accessible, 
comprehensible, reusable and stored  
 
11. adding the following clauses to Data management plans ’s of research proposals:  
a. following the Harvard policy on intellectual property1, this supplement "protects the 
traditi onal rights of scholars with respect to the products of their intellectual 
endeavors". In particular the data gathered in an anthropological/ethnographic setting 
(footage, audio -recordings, photographs, drawings, fieldnotes, etc.) are the 
intellectual prop erty of individual researchers as they are the outcome of the 
intellectual work of the researcher.  
b. the data gathered are held in trust by individual researchers to protect the interests of 
people studied or be returned to them, unless otherwise stipulated;   
c. the data are stored and preserved by individual researchers until they stop reporting 
on this particular research, at which point the data should be returned to people 
studied or destroyed, unless otherwise stipulated;         
d. third parties do not have t he right to demand access to unprocessed ethnographic 
research data except in the strictest confidentiality, unless otherwise stipulated.  
                                                             
1  http: //otd.harvard.edu/faculty -inventors/resources/policies -and-procedures/statement -of-policy -in-
regard -to-intellectual -property/  6 Format Leiden University Data Management Plani 
The Research Data Management Regulations Leiden University requires researchers to write a data 
management plan at the start of a long- term research projectii. Please contact the Centre for Digital 
Scholarship at the University Libraries Leiden if you need help:  datamanagement@library.leidenuniv.nl   
 
 
Name and contact details  
  
Name of project and group  
 Insert project name if there is one, otherwise write “none”.  
Description of your research  This can be short and focussed on content, elaborate below on 
methods and t ypes of data etc.  
Project duration  Select dates that make sense for your project (this can be long -term if 
that is the case in your research)  
Names of people and their 
responsibilities for data 
management  Your name here – generally the one who collects the data is the main 
person responsible. If you work on a project with a PI who shares 
responsibility say so here and elaborate below.  
 
Funding body(ies)  
 Insert if applicable, otherwise write “none”  
Grant number  
 Insert if applicable  
Partner organisati ons 
 Insert if applicable, otherwise write “none”. This refers to formal 
collaborations with organizations, If there are specific individuals with 
whom you share your data, this can be described below.  
 
 
About this Data Management Plan  
Date written  
 - 
Date last update  
 - 
Version  This will be version 1 for most of you  
 
Changes in this version of the Data Management Plan  
Only applicable if this is an amended DMP . If this is your first DMP , leave this section blank  
 
Component  Progress / Execution  
Please describe briefly what progress you have made, any questions or 
issues you have encountered and want to discuss, etc.  
1. Data collection  ………  
2. Data storage and back -up 
 ………  
3. Data documentation  ………  7  
4. Data access, sharing and 
reuse  
 ………  
5. Data prese rvation and 
archiving  
 ………  
 8 1. Data collection  
Describing the data you will be creating/collecting     
1.1 Will the project use existing or third party data ?  
   No 
  Own / group previous research  
  Academic collaborators  
  Commercial collaborators  
  Publicly available database / archive  
  Specialist commercial data provider  
  Other (please specify)  
Describe briefly provenance, type and format of this data. Are there any restrictions or requirements 
for use of third party data such as licensing conditions?   
 Name the s pecific datasets and who collected the data here. Choose one of the options above. Think 
of government databases, or the datasets (not summary reports) of large scale scholarly, corporate 
or government surveys.  
1.2 What type()s of data will you collect o r create, in what file format(s)?iii 
Note that not all formats are long- lived. For sustainable access you best use the formats 
recommended by data archives, see for examples: 
http://researchdata.4tu.nl/fileadmin/editor_upload/File_formats/Digital_Preservation_Support_leve
ls.pdf  or http://www.dans.knaw.nl/en/deposit/information- about -depositing-
data/DANSpreferredformatsUK.pdf   
 This is essentially two questions in one. Possible answers:  
1. Documents (e.g. word, odt, rtf, pdf)  
2. field notebooks/diaries/observations (paper and/or wo rd/odt/rtf, also possibly jpeg or pdf)  
3. Interview guides (word/odt/rtf/pdf)  
4. transcripts (word/odt/rtf/pdf)  
5. Excel files (xls)  
6. audio -recordings (mp3 is best)  
7. photographs (jpeg, or whichever format you use)  
8. video -recordings of public events ( Pro Res, or whichever format you use)  
9. Collections of objects, flyers, paperwork, etc.  
10. field notebooks, diaries,  
11. other types of database files.  
1.3 How will you collect and/or create your data?  
Please describe briefly. Name any relevant protoc ols and/or standard in your area of expertise.  
Possible answers:  
The main methods, and the standard in anthropology, are participant -observation (hand written and 
typed notes) and interviews (informal, formal, audio -recorded?) in ongoing conversation w ith, and 
observation of, the research subjects during naturally occurring behaviour.  
Surveys  
Digital data from online platforms that are public (no password required to access) or  
Digital data from platforms are private (e.g WhatsApp, messenger, private FB accounts, etc).  
Public records (e.g. court records, archival materials, etc).  
Photographs 
Videorecordings  
Collecting documents/objects  9 etc. 
1.4 What tools, instruments, equipment, hardware or software will you use to capture, produce, 
collect or cre ate the data?  
 Please give the names of the tools and state if they are already available. If not, state how you 
intend to acquire them. If applicable, describe whether you use a paper or electronic labjournal.  
Possible answers:  
Data recording: noteboo ks, pens, pencils, paper, tablets, laptops, smart phones, (video)cameras, 
audio -recorders, desktop computers, questionnaires, etc.  
Data storage: for paper documents need to be kept behind lock and key when not in use; electronic 
files can be stored on encr ypted external hard drives (also kept behind lock and key when not in use), 
password protected devices, or university approved virtual research network or storage system such 
as DANS, Virtual Research Environment, J -schijf, P -schijf.  
Data Analysis: IBM SPS S, Nuivo, AtlasTI, etc.  
1.5 What is the estimated size of the data?  
Please describe briefly. Stages to be adopted if relevant.  
This section is mainly of importance to Visual materials which are large (or for the storage of large 
data sets if you have t hese). You can either just say that the size of all your data is negligible or insert 
estimated sizes for each type of data below. The point of this section is just to ensure that you have 
enough storage available for the data you intend to gather. This wi ll not be so important for many of 
you.  
Data stage  Specification of type of 
research data Software choice 
and file format  Data 
size 
now  Data size when 
project is finished  
Raw data      
Processed 
data     
Results      
Other…      
 
 
 
 
 
2. Data storage and security  
Ensuring that all research data are stored securely 
and backed up or copied regularly during your 
research     
2.1 Where will you store your data?  
Please describe how safe storage is guaranteed. Specify your method if your data is collected and / 
or transported in different locations / countries.  
 ☐  On university departmental network storage (J:)  
☐  On university personal network storage (P:)  
☐  In a Virtual Research Environment (Sharepoint)  
☐  Physical storage (e.g. USB, external hard drive)  
☐  Cloud service (e.g. SURFdrive)  
☐ Other, namely: laptop, e xternal hard drive and audio recorder for digital data. ‘Hard copy data’ 
sits in a closet in my office.  10  Select any of the above options. This list is quite exhaustive. There are few other options still 
permissible for data storage under GDPR. Hard drive s and laptops/devices should be encrypted 
and/or password protected and kept behind lock and key when not in use. Paper files should be 
stored “behind lock and key” when not in use.  
Options from transport between countries can be: in person through luggag e, sending encrypted 
hard drives (possibly as backup) by post to your office.  
2.2 Will your data be backed up?  
Please specify briefly for each storage device frequency, location of backups and who is responsible.  
Describe how you can restore your data in the event of data loss and who is responsible.  
 Usually you, the researcher, are responsible for back ups. If you are working on a larger project it is 
possible that the PI or project assistant is responsible. The J and P schijf are backed up 
automaticall y by the university (ISSC) every night. If you store your data on devices or external 
drives, then describe here how often and in what way you will make a back up: for example, you 
may get a second hard- drive which is used only as back up and which you sync every week. While 
you are in the field you may send such a hard drive to the office from time to time to ensure safe 
keeping. If you make use of virtual research networks or university approved digital storage services 
you can sync your data regularly fr om the field. Paper files may be photocopied and stored in two 
separate locations. Maybe paper files are digitalized (pictures taken or scanned) and stored on an 
encrypted drive. There are lots of possibilities here.  
2.3 Are there any commercialisation, ethical or confidentiality restrictions about handling your 
data?  
Please specify briefly.   
☐  Contractual obligations  
X Requirements by law : protection of personal data (e.g. privacy law) : specify in 4.1  
☐  Requirements by law : copyright, intellectual property : specify in 4.1  
X  Ethical restrictions (e.g. ethical review) : specify in 4.1  
☐  Comm ercial considerations (e.g. patentability)  
☐  Formal security standards  
☐  No requirements  
☐  Other, namely: ………  
The answer for everyone here is (at least) “Requirement by law: protection of personal data” and 
“Ethical restrictions” (I've already filled it  out for you). You may have more restrictions in your case. 
Brief specification can be “This research is subject to GDPR privacy legislation” and adheres to 
current anthropological codes of ethics.” You can expand below under 4.1. The applicable laws will 
be both local laws in the country of field work and European and Dutch laws.  
2.4 How will access to the data be managed during the project?  
Please specify for each storage device, from different locations / countries.  
Our default policy is the following : For the duration of project only the researcher (or research 
team) will have direct access to the raw data. If the research team plans to share data this should 
be clearly communicated to the research participants. Anyone outside of the research team 
(including assistants) who is granted access to the raw data will be asked to sign a non -disclosure 
agreement. Only the researcher who gathered the data will be empowered to decide who can be 
granted access to which research materials, and in which formats, and will do so in accordance 
with the current legislation valid at the time of the research and/or research reporting.  
2.5 What are the main risks to data security?  
Please list risks, e.g. accidental deletion, falling into the wrong hands.  11 Please describe  what would happen if the data get lost or become unusable.  
The main risks are, as above, 1. accidental deletion and 2. data falling into the wrong hands. You 
can add other risks if relevant.  
1. Under accidental deletion it is perhaps worth explaining that ethnographic research is not based 
on the logic of complete data sets (all data is a piece of a story and we never have all the pieces). 
Some minor data loss, while very unfortunate, therefore, poses no risk to the completion or success 
of the overall study.  
2. Data falling into the wrong hands is a concern. Explain briefly how this is the case for your 
research specifically, how serious the consequences of such a breach would be (these may be quite 
limited for research that is not highly sensitive) and then how you will try to prevent this. E.g. 
Researchers will use the utmost care to ensure that the raw data remains inaccessible (encrypted 
on external hard drives stored behind lock and key). The computers to which the hard drives will be 
connected whe n data is being accessed by the researchers will be supplied with the latest operating 
systems and software (patching) as well as anti -virus software so that they are less vulnerable to 
malware. Expand below under the next point.  
2.6  What measures do you  take to comply with the security requirements and to mitigate the risks?  
Describe how you can restore your data in the event of data loss and who is responsible.  
If applicable, please describe procedures to ensure personal data are handled confidentially and 
who is responsible.  
X Access restrictions  
☐  Encryptions  
☐  Data processing 
☐  De-identification / Anonymisation  
☐  Regular back -ups 
☐  Master copy stored on university network storage  
☐  Master copy stored elsewhere  
☐  Other, namely: …  
For all of us, there will be some form of access restriction (I'v e already chosen that option for you), 
select additional measures you will take above and describe here briefly. The researcher is always 
the main person responsible ensuring that data is handled confidentially. If there are others (e.g. 
research team memb ers), include them here. Describe here (again) how you make and store your 
back -ups and state again that paper files will be kept behind lock and key. If you anonymise your 
data, state so here and describe briefly how you do this. If you plan to make use o f DANS, state 
which access level you will be using, e.g. “restricted access: request permission” which means that 
no one can access the data without the permission of the researcher.  
2.7 How do you differentiate between raw and processed data?  
Please expl ain briefly why you (do not) differentiate.  
☐  I will not differentiate  
☐  I will create a new file for processed data  
☐  I will create a new file for processed data and I will lock raw data  
☐  Other, namely: ‘raw’ data is typically not digitalized, so it exists in the form of field notes in a 
hard copy  notebook.  
 
The distinction between raw and processed data is of utmost importance in 
anthropological/ethnographic research. The DATA MANAGEMENT POLICY Department Cultural 12 Anthropology Development Sociology (CA DS) explains how this distinction will be m ade: “ For the 
purposes of ethnographic research, however, it is essential to distinguish between “raw” data and 
data processed for audience consumption: the first category (which includes primary data such as 
field notebooks) contains personalized data and cultural properties that are never anonomysed  
and can therefore not be openly accessed. Providing access to personalized, and possibly sensitive, 
"raw" data could harm the people studied (see American Anthropological Association Code of 
Ethics http://www.aaanet.org/profdev/ethics ). The distinction between “raw” and “processed” 
data differs, depending on whether the audience in question is interested in mere verification, 
publication or reuse. The making of that distinction, and therefore the providing access to the data 
concerned, is the ethical responsibility of the researcher."  
Several of the above options can be selected at once (for example either option 2 or 3 AND option 
4). 
Add, as applicable: Dat a will be transferred to a new file (or made into an electronic file if 
previously hand written) for the benefit of data analysis and/or publication.  
2.8 Is there any non -digital data or outputs that the project will generate? Where will these outputs 
be stored?   
Please specify briefly  and describe who is responsible for storage of these outputs .  
Yes (for all of us I assume). Possibilities: hand -written notes, hard -copies of documents gathered 
(e.g. flyers, posters, newsletters, newspapers articles), m aterial objects, etc. Any of these 
documents that contain sensitive data or personal data and which are not made for public 
circulation must be stored “behind lock and key”. If you know where, you can specify, e.g. first, at 
the field site (during fieldwor k) and later in the researcher's office or the researcher's home. The 
researchers who gathered the data is responsible for safeguarding the data.  
2.9 Do you expect to have any supplementary costs for storage not covered by the project budget?  
Please speci fy 
 Most of us will not have “project budgets”, but luckily also not very expensive storage needs. 
However, this depends on whether you will be using network storage, for how long you will use it, 
and how much space you need. For example, in both DANS and on the J/P -schijf each researcher 
gets 50GB of free storage (as of last check), but more space costs money. Discuss this with Ilse 
beforehand if you plan to store large amounts of data in DANS or on the J/P -schijven.  
 
3. Data documentation  
Documenting yo ur data to help future users to 
understand and reuse it     
3.1 How will files be named?  
Please describe briefly.  
This can be done however you see fit.  
3.2 How will folders be named and structured?  
You are invited to draw a folder structure and descri be it briefly. 
This can be done however you see fit.  
3.3 How do you handle version control to maintain all changes that are made to the data?  
Please explain your choice briefly. Remember to also document any deletion of data, if applicable.  13 ☐  No version control (e.g. original files are overwritten)  
☐  Version control software, namely: …  
☐  Data/version number in filename/folder  
☐  ‘Track changes’ feature in software  
☐  By saving the script with which I process my data  
☐ Other, namely: the first v ersion of research material I have produced myself (e.g. field note) is 
usually hard copy (notebook) or audio file. The second version is then a digital document (MS 
Word). Further analysis is done by hand (hard copy, print -outs) and by using computer assi sted 
qualitative data analysis (Atlas.TI), which does not change the original data.  
I suspect this will be N/A for most of us, but of course, if you have a system for version control 
describe it here. Again, this can be done however you see fit.  
3.4 What metadata standard will be used, if any?iv 
Please explain why you use this standard (most used in my discipline, required by the data archive 
where I will deposit my data). Please outline how the metadata will be created (read me file, 
spreadsheet, in the  data). If no standard exist, please specify which metadata is needed to 
understand the data.  
☐  No metadata standard is used  
☐  Generic metadata standard (e.g. Dublin Core)  
☐  Standard automatic Windows metadata (e.g. from Word, Excel)  
☐  Specialised metadata standard, namely: …  
☐  Other metadata standard, namely: …  
This is also possibly N/A, but of co urse, if you are applying a metadata standard, describe it here. 
Any standard is fine since anthropology as a discipline has no standard. For video or for file sharing, 
having such a system might be very useful.  
Some of you use Generic metadata standard, r eadme files.  
3.5 What supporting information / documentation will you create to enhance understanding of the 
data ?  
Please describe briefly how peers should be able to understand the data. Examples are a readme.txt, 
lab journals, a codebook, survey quest ions etc. Is there a standard for documentation in your field? 
Describe at what moment in your research process you will add the documentation necessary to 
make sure the data is understandable for peers.  
Mention here that there are no codebooks for de -anonymization or survey questions (except of 
course if you are working with code books and gathering survey data).  
Site the DMP again here” As the DATA MANAGEMENT POLICY Department Cultural Anthropology 
Development Sociology (CA DS) explains, “ Interpretabil ity: anthropological data are not stored in 
excel sheets or databases, but in the form of lengthy written texts that span multiple notebooks or 
digital files (e.g. word docs, photos, film, audio -recordings). These data require contextualization to 
be intel ligible to other researchers because: a. they reflect a human relationship between researcher 
and research participants that shapes the context in which the data was gathered; b. each 
notebook, or text, cannot be easily understood without triangulation acr oss multiple 
notebooks/devices/personal archives which cannot all be made available due to the risk of breach of 
privacy (lack of anonymity), and c. without deep knowledge of the research context and the specific 
research participants the data cannot be ac curately assessed. ”  
 
If you plan to create a type of “contextualizing document” that can accompany processed, sharable, 
data to make this data available and understandable to others, or to process the data in such a way 14 that it is easily decipherable desc ribe this here.  
 
 
4. Data access, sharing and reuse  
Managing access and security, sharing your data     
4.1 Are there any restrictions placed on sharing / reuse of some / all of your data?  
Please account for not sharing your data. Reasons may be ethical , commercial, security -related, 
protection of personal data rules, intellectual property, copyright,  
Yes, there are considerable ethical concerns. Although processed data will be widely shared, raw 
data will be handled carefully. As described in the DAT A MANAGEMENT POLICY Department 
Cultural Anthropology Development Sociology (CA DS), “the data gathered in an 
anthropological/ethnographic setting are held in trust by the researcher to protect the interests of 
people studied or be returned to them (if possible), unless otherwise stipulated” and “In the process 
of anthropological/ethnographic research specifically, social relationships with research participants 
are usually dynamic, qualitative and personal and require constant revision of the standards of 
research participants’ privacy and cultural property. Researchers are responsible for protecting the 
research participants’ interests, by keeping the data in a well -documented secluded setting unless 
they have been processed for third party consumption” and “During ethnographic fieldwork, extra 
measures to protect data may be necessary to protect data using encryption software and extra 
passwords on laptops and external hard discs.“  
You can also mention co -ownership if it applies.  
Also mention any topic sp ecific reasons (gathering of information on religious or political beliefs, 
sexuality, criminal behaviour, conflicts, etc).  
Further reasons for keeping raw data private might be conflicts of interest among the research 
participants themselves which could be harmed through sharing of raw data.  
4.2 With whom will you share your data at which stage in your research? You can use the table 
below.  
Please state any sharing requirements, e.g. funder data sharing policy. Please describe briefly how 
you will share  your data: on request, pro -actively, etc.. Please specify how your data can be 
accessed.  
Fill in as you see fit. Most likely for the first two rows (raw data) you will not share the data with 
anyone (or only with collaborators) and once the data is proc essed (rows 3 -6) you will share a 
selection of the data with a larger audience. No need to promise to share all the data with 
everyone. In any case make it clear that when referring to sharing, you are referring only to 
“processed data” as described above,  unless of course you plan to share all of your raw data – in 
which case an ethical justification should be made above and below.  
 Would 
not 
share 
with 
anyon
e Would 
share with 
my 
immediate 
collaborators  Would 
share with 
others in 
my 
research 
centre or at 
my 
institution  Would 
share 
with 
scientists 
in my 
field  Would 
share 
with 
scientists 
outside of 
my field  Would 
share with 
anyone  
Immediately 
after the data 
has been       15 generated  
After the data 
has been 
normalized 
and/or 
corrected for 
errors        
After the  
data has 
been 
processed for 
analysis        
After the data 
has been 
analysed        
Immediately 
before 
publication        
Immediately 
after the 
findings  
derived from 
this data have 
been 
published        
Based on: Interview worksheet, Jake Carlson, Pu rdue University Libraries / Distributed Data 
Curation Center  
…………  
4.3 If intending to share any part of the data, do your participant consent procedures include 
information about intentions for sharing, retention of data and steps taken to protect 
parti cipants privacy and confidentiality?  
☐ Not applicable.  
X Yes. Please specify the relevant formula in the consent procedures.  
While some anthropological research can and does use written informed consent, most often verbal 
forms of consent are used. Par ticipants who have demonstrated continued consent (verbally and 
non- verbally) to participate in the research will be informed of the data storage and sharing plans. 
Remember also to get informed consent from your research participants for the possibility o f future 
archiving of your data if you think the data has historical significance and if you do not plan to 
destroy your data after you are done working with it.  See Appendix I: Approved Informed Consent 
Procedures in Anthropology.  
4.4 Who has authority t o grant (additional) access to your data?  
Please describe briefly.  16 ☐  Only you  
☐  A colleague from the project, namely: …  
☐  Supervisor  
☐  Funder  
☐  Collaborator / research partner organisation  
☐  Other, namely: …  
I suggest choosing only you, unless there is a specific reason to select otherwise (e.g. team projects). 
If you are working on a team project, devise an “Access Control List”. For example:  
Access to data will be determined by the following access control list:  
Data work package 1: PI  
Data work p ackage 2: PhD 1 / partner organization 1 (name person and affiliation)  
Data work package 3: PhD 2 / partner organization 2 (name person and affiliation)  
Data work package 4: PhD 3 / partner organization 3 (name person and affiliation)  
Data work package 5: Postdoc 1 / partner organization 4 (name person and affiliation)  
And so on...  
In the case where data is gathered together with someone else and fully shared, state whether both 
researchers need to consent for the further sharing of the data or wether one or the other has final 
say or, if decision -making power is divided, describe over which portions of the data each person 
has final say. It may also be the case that the PI on a project determines this for all work packages, 
or at least needs to be consulte d, prior to sharing. I would suggest keeping the control as much as 
possible in your own hands.  
4.5 How will you manage copyright and Intellectual Property Rights issues?  
Who owns the data? How will the data be licensed for reuse?  Please describe briefly your choices 
and their consequences.  
This will depend on your specific circumstances. You can claim sole ownership (this is what the 
default claim is for our institute, see introduction above), co -ownership with (some of) the research 
participants (also included in our introduction above as an important factor), or leave ownership to 
Leiden University, or to the research funder – however you have previously arranged this.  
4.6 What is the audience for reuse?  
Please list possible audiences and purposes. Co nsider who might use it now and who might use it 
later.  
Potential audiences for the re -use of data that the researcher has carefully selected and processed 
for sharing are other scholars working in your field, relevant groups in the local context, non -profits, 
NGOs, specific government bodies, etc (as relevant to your research).  
 
5. Data preservation and archiving  
Preserving your data     
5.
1 Which criteria will you use to decide which data has to be archived?  
Please briefly describe your choices.  
☐  Type of data (raw, processed) and how easy it is to reproduce it  
☐  Relevance of content for others  
☐  Usability of format for others  
☐  Data underlying publications  
☐  Verification of research  
☐  Available time  
☐  Available money  17 ☐Other, namely: ethical requirements  
Selection of data for sharing and archiving should be made on the basis of 1. ethical commitments 
to research participants and 2. interpretability/usability of the data by outsiders.  
1. This can include the question of whether or not the data can be anony mized and whether 
consent has been given for the re -use of non- anonymized or anonymized data. It can include the risk 
to participants based on the type of data gathered (controversial opinions, private information, 
criminal activity, information that could  lead to discrimination, job loss, insecurity, etc.) as well as 
the societal benefits and opportunities that data sharing might bring to the research participants.  
2. The usability of the data by anyone other than the researcher who gathered it is not always 
self-evident in anthropological research. While some of our data maybe sharable other portions of 
the data will not be understandable to others without explanation by the researcher who gathered 
the data as described in the DATA MANAGEMENT POLICY Departmen t Cultural Anthropology 
Development Sociology (CA DS). 
5.
2 How long should your data be preserved? Are there any requirements regarding the disposal of 
data? State obligations you have by law, funder, university, etc. if any.  
Describe how you will dispos e of the data, e.g. how you will get approval, what people and/or tools 
you need, etc.  
Leiden University Regulation for Data Management requires that research data be kept for a 
minimum of ten years after the end of a research project. However, it is no t uncommon in 
anthropological research for various research projects to build upon each other and the materials 
gathered may be incorporated into a future project. Additionally, ethnographic archives can be 
important historical records that should be safeguarded.  
You can therefore choose to keep the data beyond this ten year window. However , the research 
participants must consent to this (see Appendix I on consent procedures) and, wherever possible, 
the data must be “anonymized” (in the legal sense). If yo u want to store non- anonymized data (e.g. 
video or non -modulated audio -recordings) beyond the end of the research “project” then you have 
to explain how the data is relevant for a future research project or how the data is of historical 
relevance and descr ibe your plan for archival in the public interest.  
You can do this when you submit your DMP for the next research project (assuming you are working 
in the frame of “projects”). In that case state here now, “audio or video recordings that are not 
anonymise d will be deleted at the end of the research period, unless there is a follow -up research 
project foreseen for which these audio -recordings might prove relevant or unless it is determined 
that the resulting ethnographic archive is of historical significanc e, in which case a suitable archive 
will be sought.” In the case of data retention beyond the life of the research project, a new DMP 
should be submitted to describe the archiving plans/new research project.  
Add, of course, any further obligations you may have from funders, partner organizations etc.  
When disposing of data, state that you will get a professional to clear hard drives, etc (I hope the 
university will soon have someone for this).  
The DATA MANAGEMENT POLICY Department Cultural Anthropology Dev elopment Sociology 
(CADS) suggests that data may be destroyed, handed back to the research participants or archived 18 appropriately upon the retirement of the researcher from rese arch reporting, but allows for each 
researcher to determine this for themselves and to outline this in the DMP for the research project. 
State whether you will be destroying, archiving, or handing over the data to others upon retirement 
and if so how/where  you will archive the materials or how you will ensure the safety/privacy of the 
research participants if/when the data is handed over. Or if you do not yet know, state so, and say 
that you will submit an amendment to the DMP once this is decided.  
5.
3 Which data repository is appropriate for archiving your data?  
Please describe briefly. Does this archive have a ‘data seal of approval’ or another form of 
certification?   
☐  Discipline specific (international) repository, namely ...  
☐  4TU.Centre for Resear ch Data  
☐  SurfSara 
☐DANS Easy  
☐  Other (international) repository, namely :  
☐ Other, namely: …  
Unless you already have a clear idea of this for your research, state that the question of data 
archiving will be determined once the exact nature of the dat a gathered is clear and the researcher 
has determined which portions of the data can be shared which not.  
5.
4 Does the archive have specific requirements concerning file formats, metadata etc.  
Provide relevant urls to the documentation on these requireme nts. Describe how you intend to meet 
those requirements, e.g. converting the file formats, providing supplementary documentation.  
Will there be extra costs to prepare your data for archiving?  Please specify. See http://www.data -
archive.ac.uk/media/ 247429/costingtool.pdf  
N/A, unless you have already chosen an archiving system/repository – then describe here the file 
formats.  
5.
5 What costs (if any) will your selected repository c harge? Who pays?  
Please state the costs in euro’s and the institution that pays for it.  
N/A, unless you have already chosen an archiving system/repository – then describe the costs here.  
5.
6 Who is responsible for the data after the project ends?  
Pleas e state a position and the current person in that position.  
Probably, you are. I think in most cases the answer here is that you are responsible, though this 
responsibility may be shared with others in group project. This shared responsibility may mirror  your 
Access Control List above, unless the specific agreement has been made that one researcher in the 
project (the PI or the main host institution) has this responsibility. If you are claiming ownership 
above (point 4.5), consider what will happen to your data after you die (especially how to ensure 
that data that may be of public interest is shared/archived or that highly sensitive data is kept safe). 
This last point is not a legal requirement for a DMP , but seems important to consider.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                             
i  This  template is based on the 3TU data management plan, the University of Bath data mana gement plan and the 
Data Management Checklist of the University of Western Sydney.  
ii  http://regulations.leiden.edu/research/research- data -management -regulations -leiden -university.html  19                                                                                                                                                                                                 
iii  Data types can be : documents (text, MS Word), spreadsheets, field notebooks, diaries, questionnaires, transcripts, 
surveys, codebooks, audiotapes, videotapes, photographs, (transcribed) test responses, models, algorithms, measurements, 
simulations, observations, software source code, computational model output, etc. Think of the different stages (for instance 
: video recording, transcript, annotation, lists of typological features ....).  
iv  See http://www.dcc.ac.uk/resources/metadata -standards  or  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Metadata_standards   or 
the relevant repository.  