UG Research Data Policy
2021
1.Introduction
The multitude of data being generated and collected
worldwide offers researchers enormous potential
for new inventions, perspectives and innovative solutions.
The condition is that this data is findable,
accessible and useable. Responsible data management
contributes to the transparency and reliability of
scientific conclusions, has a positive influence on
public confidence in science and increases the social
impact of research. The University of Groningen wants
to contribute to science and society and
therefore endorses the principles of Open Science
and FAIR data.
This memorandum sets out the UG-wide starting points
for dealing with research data and data
management. This concerns a general framework setting
out basic principles and responsibilities for
dealing with data that is useable for research that
can be published or exploited. Firstly, the UG
Research Data Management Policy includes the standards
and principles for good data management,
for the purpose of verification and to encourage reuse
(FAIR data), and for the software and scripts that
are developed for the collection, analysing or representation
of data.
There is joint responsibility for research data management
within the UG and the general framework
permits tailor-made arrangements within institutes
and faculties. Secondly, therefore, the UG
Research Data Management Policy therefore formulates
the responsibilities and duties of individual
researchers, graduate schools, research institutes
and faculties, as well as the Board of the University.
The faculties and research institutes must update
their data policies and data management plans in
line with this policy.
Given the developments regarding research data and
data management, there will be a continuous
need to update the principles and responsibilities
at different levels within the UG. Policies will
therefore need to be evaluated and adjusted regularly
in the coming years
2.Backgr ound and c ontext upda te
The first version of the UG’s data management policy
was published in 2015, as one of the results of the
three-tier approach started by the Board of the University
in 2013. This focus on data management was
prompted by a 2012 advisory report from the Royal
Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences’ Schuyt
Committee, entitled
Zorgvuldig en integer omgaan met
wetenschappelijke onderzoeksgegevens
.
The
approach consisted of:
1.
adjustment of the UG’s protocol for quality assurance
related to research data and data
management and, if necessary, of UG-wide regulations
for dealing with research data;
2.
the setting up of a research data office for the provision
of support services of the University
Library and Center for Information Technology (CIT);
3.
proactive focus on the legal aspects of research data.
The faculty boards and the directors of the SEP institutes
were requested to develop a data
management plan for the research institute, aligned
to the best practices in the curriculum area
concerned.
On the basis of the audit conducted in 2018 and 2019
of research data policy in faculties and research
institutes, it can be stated that, with some exceptions,
the three-tier approach of 2013 has been broadly
translated into concrete progress. The audit made
clear that an update of the research data policy
should address a number of topics explicitly. As a
result, the following four points of attention are
now
an integral part of the updated policy:
1.
the monitoring of data management plans;
2.
the training of researchers and those providing support
to the research;
3.
research data in education;
4.
sharing good practices.
In addition, updating the research data policy is
necessary against the background of UG, national and
international developments (cf. Appendix 1). Furthermore,
this update reflects the UG-policy of the
implementation of the principles of Open Science.
In the Strategic Plan (2021-2026) the UG commits to
stimulating and facilitating transparency in research
and teaching by implementing and complying with
the principles of Open Science. This results for research
data policy in elaborating on and applying
FAIR-(
Findable, Accessible, Interoperable. Reproducible
)
principes
1
for research data: open where
possible and protected where necessary.
3.Principles of da ta manag emen t
Research data are codified and recorded facts and
observations ensuing from scientific research. There
is a
large variety of research data. The data can be of
a numerical, descriptive, or audio-visual nature.
Research
processes generate useable raw data, processed and
analysed data of a dynamic nature, and lastly data
of a
statistical nature, to be archived and curated. Artefacts,
objects or collections that cannot be digitalised
fall
outside the scope of these frameworks.
In principle, the processing of research data should
be in accordance with the relevant legislation, the
requirements of ethically
2
responsible research
3
,
the arrangements set out in cooperation agreements,
and
the research conditions of funders.
The Netherlands
Code of Conduct for Research Integrity includes –
in
keeping with all stages of the research process –
standards and principles for good data management,
for
the purpose of verification and to encourage reuse
(FAIR data). Also, the software and scripts that
are
developed for the collection, analysing or representation
of data are relevant in this context.
The UG permits tailor-made data storage and management,
within the general frameworks. Thus, research
institutes are granted a certain degree of latitude
when formulating their data management plans, provided
that these plans enhance the value and impact of their
data and specify the principles involved. The
institute’s guidelines  must suit the organisation
as well as the discipline and have to be in accordance
with
the principles below.
3.1 FAIR data
Below, the requirements that the data (and software
and scripts) must meet at the UG are integrated into
the presently accepted terminology of the FAIR principles.
The data are:
Findable:
●
Data is sustainably stored and curated;
●
Data is provided with metadata, including affiliation
and, if possible, with a persistent identifier;
●
Data is registered on the basis of metadata in the
research database of the university.
3
Cf:
https://www.vsnu.nl/wetenschappelijke_integriteit.html[accessed March 18, 2021].
2
Taken from
http://www.rug.nl/about-us/where-do-we-stand/quality-works/research-ethics
[accessed March 18, 
2021].
1
FAIR data: Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, Reusable:
https://www.go-fair.org/fair-principles/
[accessed
March 
18, 2021].
Accessible:
●
Data is accurate, complete, reliable, authentic and
provided with metadata and, if possible, with a
persistent identifier;
●
Data is available for checking and further research
after completion of the research and/or the
departure of the researcher;
●
Data is openly available, unless valid reasons
4
prevent
this.
Interoperable:
●
Data is stored in sustainable file formats;
●
The discipline specific standards for the enrichment
of data are applied;
●
Data (and metadata) is provided with references to
other relevant material.
Reusable:
●
The origin of the data and the affiliation of the
researcher involved is clear (Provenance);
●
The discipline specific standards for data management
are applied;
●
The conditions for reuse are clearly described.
3.2 Retention periods
For the retention period regarding research, distinction
is made between research data (and software) and
the documentation of the process that is being carried
out. If the project plan does not specify a retention
period for data, software and processes, this period
should be determined retroactively, in consultation
with all parties involved.
In general, raw data and the processed version at
the UG must be saved for at least 10 years. In the
event of
research (or secondary research) data with personal
data, the principle of data minimisation (conform
GDPR regulation) must be applied as soon as possible.
The Netherlands Code of Conduct for Research
Integrity offers options to deviate from the retention
period of 10 years. However, in that case the raw
data
and the processed version must be saved for a period
suitable for the discipline and the methodology.
The
following could be taken into consideration when deciding
on the retention period:
●
the nature (and especially the privacy sensitivity)
of the data;
●
the need for source material to substantiate the results;
●
the applied scientific value of the research results;
●
the effort to make the data available for re-use;
●
the efforts of long term preservation;
●
the usefulness of source material for follow-up research.
The retention period of data management plans and
data management protocols of projects, faculties and
research institutes is at least 10 years, but not
shorter than the retention period of the dataset.
5
These
documents primarily relate to policy making, execution
and financing of research, and quality assessment.
Also included here are the (legal) advices of ethical
committees and agreements, evaluations and further
agreements with research partners.
3.3 Funding
5
https://www.nationaalarchief.nl/archiveren/kennisbank/selectielijst-universiteiten-en-universitair-medische-centra-
2020
[accessed March 18, 2021].
4
Valid reasons, including confidentiality, can be
found in: European Council, conclusions of the Council:
The 
transition towards an Open Science system, paragraph
14 (Brussel, 27/05/2016, 9526/16, via: 
data.consilium.europa.eu/doc/document/ST-9526-2016-INIT/en/pdf
)
[accessed March 18, 2021]. The considerations 
for this are detailed in the section regarding Retention
period.
The Board of the University and the faculties fund
the general facilities for the purpose of research
data management. For specific facilities, the costs
are charged to the faculty.
The funding of data management costs, including archiving,
are included in each initial research
proposal chargeable to the research funder. When determining
a suitable budget, the costs of data
management throughout the entire lifecycle and any
additional costs for the necessary protective
measures if processing sensitive research data must
be taken into consideration.
4. Responsibilities
Responsible data management requires collaboration
between research and support services. There is
joint responsibility for research data management
within the UG. The guiding principle here is the Higher
Education and Research Act and the elaboration thereof
in the Administration and Management
Regulations UG which allocates the responsibility
at different levels.
The central departments, as well as the various faculties
and institutes, are responsible for providing
service for the purpose of research data management.
Although, the Administration and Management
Regulations UG do not make specific mention of central
services being tasked with research support, in
recent years, however, the exchange of knowledge by
means of short lines between faculties, and the
provision of services have clearly borne fruit. Adequate
support for – and the central coordination of –
training courses will ensure that tailor-made solutions
can be more widely used by the faculties.
Furthermore, the Netherlands Code of Conduct for Research
Integrity imposes a duty of care on the
institute in terms of education in research integrity,
research culture and data management, as well as
the
exchange of knowledge between ethics boards when assessing
whether data can be made openly available.
These lines converge in the Groningen Digital Competence
Center (GDCC).
4.1 Researchers
The researcher is responsible for drawing and implementing
a data management plan (or having it
implemented) for all her or his ongoing research during
which research data is processed. If a plan is
drawn up for each individual project, then each participating
researcher will endorse this plan and will
add any supplementary details that apply specifically
to her or him. The research institute or faculty,
as
the case may be, will provide the frameworks for the
data management plan. The following is requested
from the researcher:
1.
To act in accordance with the General Data Protection
Regulation, the General Policy for the
protection of personal data of the UG and other statutory
and ethical rules;
2.
To record the arrangements made regarding data management
during a (joint) research project or
research contract in accordance with the Research
Data Policy of the institute and the Netherlands
Code of Conduct for Research Integrity. Appendix 2
indicates in which cases the researcher must
record agreements in writing and which points have
the attention of the General Administrative
and Legal Affairs Service (ABJZ);
3.
To safeguard the integrity and security of the data
in accordance with the security baseline
developed by the CIT;
4.
To submit proposals for the destruction of research
data, in advance, to the Research Director
and/or the ethics boards;
5.
To
assure
the
access,
reuse
and
storing
of
research
data
after
the
end
of
the
research
project,
in
accordance with the research institute’s data management
plan;
6.
To assure the storing and access to data management
plans and data management protocols
(incl. agreements with research partners);
7.
To estimate the costs of – and investment of time
in – data management during the research
project and thereafter;
8.
To familiarise oneself with new developments in the
field of data management in the relevant
discipline;
9.
The co-development and documentation of the procedures
and processes (suitable for the
research) used for the collection, storage, processing,
use and access of the research data;
10.
To provide students and young researchers with guidance
concerning good data management.
4.2 Graduate Schools
The Graduate Schools will embed the topic of data
management in the early stages of researcher’s careers,
as an integrated part of scientific practice.
1.
The Graduate Schools will provide mandatory courses
for Research Master’s students and PhD
students and can make use of central services to this
end;
2.
The Graduate Schools will ensure that arrangements
are made with PhD students regarding data
management and the recording of such arrangements
in these students’ training and supervision
plans.
3.
The Graduate Schools will ensure that PhD thesis supervisors
and the daily supervisors of the PhD
students make arrangements, together with the PhD
student, for the PhD student’s research data
to be made available for further research after the
PhD programme has concluded (Regulations of
the conferral of a doctorate (PhD regulations) Art.
4.1.5.).
4.
The Graduate Schools will ensure – with support from
the GDCC – that best practices in the field
of data management education are shared.
4.3 Faculties and research institutes
The faculty boards and research directors are responsible
for setting up and maintaining responsible data
management policy in accordance with the UG Research
Data Policy. The faculty and institute policy need
to contain the following elements:
1.
The research institute will maintain the Institute's
Research Data Management plan in
accordance with the principles formulated in the Science
Europe guidance
6
and will make
this data management plan available to its researchers.
The plan contains the following
elements:
●
Data description and collection or re-use of existing
data;
●
Documentation and data quality;
●
Storage and backup during the research process;
●
Legal and ethical requirements, codes of conduct;
●
Data sharing and long-term preservation;
●
Data management responsibilities and resources;
2.
The Faculty Board will adopt the Institute’s Research
Data Management Plans, after testing
these against the stipulated frameworks. The plans
will be published on the website of the
GDCC;
3.
In the event of an externally funded research project,
the institute will verify, in a timely
manner, whether that research project’s data management
plan is in keeping with the research
institute’s data management plan.
4.
At faculty level, the Faculty Board will maintain
oversight and will supervise the enforcement
6
https://www.scienceeurope.org/our-resources/practical-guide-to-the-international-alignment-of-research-data-mana
gement/?fromprevious=15395
[accessed March 18, 2021].
of the rules related to data storage and management within the individual disciplines and/or
the institutes;
5.
The Faculty Board will be responsible for ensuring
that the data files, data management plans and
research protocols can be verified, on the instructions of the Board of the University, if there is
cause to do so (in the event of an alleged breach
of integrity, for example);
6.
Decision-making regarding the destruction of research
data will be in the hands of the research
institute, based on the protocols and/or the data
management plan, where necessary in
consultation with the ethics boards;
7.
Both will cooperate with the periodical internal audits
carried out to verify actual and ongoing
compliance with the relevant rules and procedures;
8.
The Faculty Board will, in consultation with the research
institute, determine which preconditions
apply to the research institute’s data management
during research in which third parties have
control (or joint control) over the data;
9.
The Faculty Board will make further arrangements regarding
oversight over the research data
after completion of the research, and regarding oversight
over research data ensuing from the
research by researchers who have left the University
of Groningen;
10.
The Faculty Board will ensure that data management,
in conjunction with a focus on research
integrity and on dealing with personal data responsibly,
is enshrined in the curriculum;
11.
The Faculty Board will draw up a policy and procedures
for research data that is generated and
used in the context of teaching. These guidelines
are expressed in the Teaching and
Examination Regulation Models. The learning outcomes
expressly stipulate that, during
research assignments, students must adhere to the
applicable (discipline-specific) standards,
not only at the publication stage, but throughout
the entire research process. This, therefore,
also concerns standards related to ethics, research
integrity when dealing with data, and data
management. ABJZ provides an optional additional provision
in the Teaching and Examination
Regulation Models;
12.
The Faculty Board acknowledges the contribution made
by ethics boards, in terms of advice
regarding responsible data management and open data;
it also encourages the exchange of
knowledge between ethics boards;
13.
The Faculty Board and research director encourage
the exchange of knowledge and good
practices among researchers;
14.
The Faculty Board decides, in consultation with its
research institutes and its Graduate School, by
mutual agreement, which central data management services
it wishes to use, and which aspects it
will provide itself.
4.4 Board of the University
The Board of the University supervises compliance
with the legislation, the Netherlands Code of
Conduct for Research Integrity and the Strategic Evaluation
Protocol (SEP 2021-2027). The
supervision and testing of faculty/institute plans
and the arrangements made, as well as the
implementation thereof, fall under the responsibility
of the Board of the University. The Board of
the University takes the position that, on the departure
of employees, data must remain available
for verification and further research.
1.
The Board of the University will arrange for audits
to be conducted on a regular and planned
basis, and will be responsible for ensuring that this
is funded.
2.
The Board of the University will facilitate the required
infrastructures, as well as arrangements
with third parties concerning the associated infrastructural
provisions. It will also be
responsible for ensuring the development of the required
expertise in the field of research data
management.
3.
The Board of the University contributes to the development
of policies, at national and
international level, which encourages researchers
to contribute to open data and re-use of data
by the scientific community.
4.
The Board of the University is responsible for ensuring
access to the legal advice needed
to regulate control over the research data and legal
preconditions that play a part in the
encouragement of open data and/or the reuse of data,
while at the same time taking
account of the importance of knowledge valorisation
in public-private cooperation and of
safeguarding research integrity. Appendix 2 indicates
in which cases agreements
regarding research integrity must be recorded and
which points have the attention of
ABJZ;
5.
The Board of the University is responsible for drafting
regulations and guidelines and for
mandating responsibilities related to data management.
4.5 Central Support Service: Groningen Digital CompetenceCenter
In the three-tier approach adopted by the Board of
the University a start was made in connecting and
further developing facilitating bodies and their expertise
for the  support of research data management.
This has resulted in the creation of the Groningen
Digital Competence Center, a fusion of the Research
Data Office and the Data Federation Hub and several
new services of the Center for information
Technology.
The GDCC brings together relevant expertise on FAIR
research data management within the UG in one
place. Researchers, lecturers and research support
staff can make use of the expertise on research data,
research software and computing and pose their questions.
The GDCC offers consultancy services on
data management plans, data protection, storage and
archiving.  It provides training courses and
(digital) meetings. It manages an informative website,
a web tool for research data management plans
and platforms for archiving data in accordance with
the FAIR data principles. It maintains national and
international relationships concerning research data
management and stays informed of any relevant
developments, while sharing knowledge and insights
with faculties, institutes and researchers and
adopting its services accordingly.
Appendix 1: Ov erview of de velopmen t influencing R esear chData Manag emen t Policy
This updated research data policy takes the following
developments into account:
1.
In 2018 the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)
came into effect in Europe. This is
detailed at institute level in the General policy
on protection of personal data UG. Researchers and
institutes must meet the principles of the GDPR during
research with personal data. In research
cooperation (both at national and international level)
the principles of accountability and
transparency result in increased pressure to record
arrangements regarding responsibility for the
data in a transparent manner.
2.
The Netherlands Code of Conduct for Research Integrity
(2018) includes – in keeping with all
stages of the research process – standards as well
as principles for good data management and the
encouragement of reuse (FAIR data), as well as the
duty of care on the part of the institute to
facilitate good data management.
3.
The 2015-2021 Standard Evaluation Protocol (SEP) prescribes
that the SEP institute must report,
on the basis of the protocol, regarding its handling
of processed data. In addition, the next edition
(SEP 2021-2027) will expressly request a focus on
Open Science (including sharing data) and
Research Culture (including integrity).
4.
The doctoral degree regulation of the UG (2018) stipulates
that data with an accompanying
explanation must, in any event, be filed for verification
of the research, for further scientific
research in accordance with the guidelines of the
Data Policy of the University of Groningen and
the Data Policy of the research institute.
5.
The interaction between education and research, and
therefore responsible data management as
well, is expressed in the Education and Examination
Regulation Models. In education research
data has growing importance. This increase requires
further regulation of responsible data
management in the curriculum. This update of the Teaching
and Examination Regulation Models
requires an updated research data policy.
6.
In the new Horizon Europe (2021-2027) framework programme,
the emphasis on Open Science
and data management is strengthened by a focus on
FAIR data, open access, research integrity and
citizen science.
7
7.
Science Europe (the European umbrella organisation
of research funders) has made data
management one of its spearheads.
8
In 2018, Science
Europe made a guidance document available
with a framework for discipline-specific data management
9
and, in 2019, a guide for the
international coordination of data management.
10
8.
Commencing in the year 2020, the Dutch Research Council
(NWO) tightened up the requirements
regarding responsible data management for all its
funding lines
11
, thereby aligning with Science
11
https://www.nwo.nl/en/news/nwo-update-its-data-management-protocol-january-2020
[accessed March 18, 
2021].
10
https://www.scienceeurope.org/our-resources/practical-guide-to-the-international-alignment-of-research-data-mana
gement/
[accessed March 18, 2021].
9
https://www.scienceeurope.org/our-resources/guidance-document-presenting-a-framework-for-discipline-specific-re
search-data-management/
[accessed March 18, 2021].
8
https://www.scienceeurope.org/our-priorities/research-data/
[accessed March 18, 2021].
7
https://www.europa-nu.nl/id/vkp27tq405yk/commission_staff_working_document_impact
[accessed March 18, 
2021];
https://ec.europa.eu/info/funding-tenders/opportunities/docs/2021-2027/common/agr-contr/general-mga_horizon
-euratom_en.pdf
[accessed March 18, 2021].
Europe.
9.
The European Research Infrastructure Consortia (ERICs)
facilitates self-organising networks
related to data infrastructure for an increasing number
of disciplines. The tally has already reached
20. BBMRI and CLARIN are well-known examples.
12
The
encouragement of these infrastructure
networks of member states symbolises the growing role
of Europe in policy related to data,
research and innovation.
10.
The discussion paper
Ruimte voor ieders talent; naar
een nieuwe balans in het erkennen en
waarderen van wetenschappers
13
explicitly mentions
sharing research data as one of the Open
Science activities that ‘can have a large impact on
society and science’.
11.
Since 2018, a discipline-specific ethical code of
conduct for research involving human subjects
applies to social scientific research; this code specifically
includes responsibility for dealing
carefully with personal data, in line with the applicable
regulations.
12.
The new selection list
14
, which is mandatory on the
basis of the Public Records Act, has been
extended for the research and valorisation policy
fields.
14
Tool for the selection (for destruction or permanent
storage, as the case may be) of the administrative
output of the 
processes of public and special universities, as well
as those of university medical centres, from 2019,
via: 
https://www.nationaalarchief.nl/archiveren/kennisbank/vastgestelde-selectielijsten
[accessed March 18, 2021].
13
https://www.vsnu.nl/nl_NL/nieuwsbericht/nieuwsbericht/543-kennissector-zet-grote-stap-vooruit-in-nieuwe-manie
r-erkennen-waarderen.html
[accessed March 18, 2021].
12
https://ec.europa.eu/info/research-and-innovation/strategy/european-research-infrastructures/eric/eric-landscape_
en
[accessed March 18, 2021].
Appendix 2: Checklis t for resear cher s when c ollabor atingexternally – Gener al Adminis trative and Leg al Aff airs(ABJZ),June 2020
The University of Groningen has signed up to the Netherlands
Code of Conduct for Research Integrity
(2018) (‘WI’ Code of Conduct). Joint research should
also be conducted in accordance with this Code
of Conduct. The Netherlands Code of Conduct for Research
Integrity (3.9) expects researchers to make
clear agreements about matters relating to research
integrity and matters that may affect this, such
as
intellectual property rights, when conducting research
with external partners, and to record these
agreements in writing.
This checklist indicates the aspects for which a researcher
must record agreements in writing and
which points should be brought to the attention of
the General Administrative and Legal Affairs
Service (Dutch abbreviation ‘ABJZ’). Examples and
model provisions have been provided where
possible. This checklist is intended to be used independently
by researchers at an early stage. The
checklist contains a general assessment framework
for collaboration agreements and a section
specifically on agreements for the processing of personal
data.
General assessment framework for collaboration agreements
Commitment to the Code of Conduct for Research Integrity
The University of Groningen will also encourage (private)
partners to commit to the WI Code of
Conduct (1.7). Collaboration with institutions that
have not signed the WI Code of Conduct or a
comparable code will only be agreed to if there is
sufficient confidence that your own part of the
research can be conducted in compliance with this
Code and the joint research results meet
generally accepted principles of integrity in research
(1.8).
Collaboration agreements also contain provisions on
asset valuation, based on the principles laid down
in the valuation policy. These agreements are tailor-made.
When considering whether a code is comparable and
the generally accepted principles of research
integrity in collaboration contracts, the ABJZ will
take into account:
a.
other codes of conduct.
b.
The declaration on Scientific Independence of the
Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and
Sciences (2005).
15
c.
The Association of Universities in the Netherlands principles for public-private partnership
2010.
16
It will also be ensured that research can be conducted
in accordance with the WI Code of Conduct as
regards proper and ethical scientific practice, with
respect to influence from other parties (e.g.
funding providers, journals, social partners).
Agreements on making data and research material public
and accessible
The WI Code of Conduct provides a duty of care for
institutions (4.16) to ensure that contracts with
commissioning parties and funding bodies include fair
agreements about access to and the publication
of data and research material. The institution (4.13)
must work with researchers (3.24) to ensure that
all
data, source code and research materials, published
and unpublished, are managed and stored securely
for a period appropriate to the discipline(s) and
methodology. Researchers must also determine an
appropriate retention period when collaborating. The
Code of Conduct expects researchers (3.8) to be
open about the role of external stakeholders and potential
conflicts of interest.
17
How the collected
research data is ordered and categorized should also
be described where necessary, so that it can be
checked and reused (3.10). Data management plans are
appropriate tools for this purpose. Researchers
should, as far as possible, make research findings
and research data public subsequent to completion
of
the research (3.11). If research data and/or information
cannot be made publicly available, researchers
should establish valid reasons for this.
18
Agreements on the processing of personal information
It is possible that the University of Groningen will
obtain a dataset containing personal data, but
will not be responsible for processing this data itself,
and must instead adhere to the instructions
18
Valid reasons, including confidentiality, can be
found in: European Council, conclusions of the Council:
The 
transition towards an Open Science system, paragraph
14 (Brussel, 27/05/2016, 9526/16, via: 
data.consilium.europa.eu/doc/document/ST-9526-2016-INIT/en/pdf
)
[accessed March 18, 2021].
17
For example, using a Declaration of Scientific Independence
as recommended in the “Science on order” report of
the 
Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences (2005),
Wetenschap op bestelling. Over de omgang tussen 
wetenschappelijke onderzoekers en hun opdrachtgevers
(Amsterdam), p. 46. Cf: 
https://www.knaw.nl/nl/actueel/publicaties/wetenschap-op-bestelling/@@download/pdf_file/20051083.pdf
[accessed March 18, 2021].
16
https://www.vsnu.nl/files/documenten/Domeinen/Onderzoek/Valorisatie/Principes%20v
oor%20Publiek-Private%20Samenwerking%20NL.pdf
[accessed
March 18, 2021].
15
https://www.knaw.nl/shared/resources/actueel/bestanden/wetenschappelijke_onafhankelij
kheid.pdf
[accessed March 18, 2021].
of the data controller. In such cases, a data processor agreement must be concluded. A UG model
agreement is available for this purpose. A checklist
is also available from the ABJZ to assess the
suitability of other models.
Collaborating research institutions will usually be
jointly responsible. Article 26 GDPR requires
the parties to determine their respective responsibilities
for compliance with the obligations under
the Regulation in a transparent manner. The arrangement
shall duly reflect the respective roles
and relationships of the joint controllers vis-à-vis
the data subjects. The essence of the
arrangement shall be made available to the data subject.
How such an arrangement should be
documented is not specified and can be arranged in
a collaboration agreement. ‘SURF’ provides a
model joint controller agreement.
19
For low risk processing, the relevant arrangement
can be set out in the data management plan
attached to the collaboration agreement. In addition,
when data subjects are informed, it must be
ensured that the information about the arrangement
is included in the consent form. For the
processing of data with a high risk of impacting the
rights of data subjects (see the data protection
impact assessment (‘DPIA’) guidance on the Research
Data Office (‘RDO’) website), research
funders (ERC, Horizon 2020) require a DPIA to be carried
out after a collaboration agreement has
been signed, but before data collection.
Parties are advised to set out the plan for these
arrangements and the party responsible for the
arrangement in the collaboration agreement. The ethics
boards must also be informed of this
arrangement because the committee can require the
reassessment of the information provided to
the data subjects.
Collaboration outside the European Economic Area (‘EEA’)
When cooperating outside the EEA, you must check whether
the country where the partner institution is
located benefits from an ‘adequacy decision’ from
the EU.
20
If not, then certain standard contractual
clauses are necessary.
21
In exceptional circumstances, Article 49 GDPR can
be relied on for research purposes. In these cases,
the
participants in the research have to be asked for
their explicit permission for the transfer of data
to and
from the Netherlands.
21
op.cit.
20
h
ttps://ec.europa.eu/info/law/law-topic/data-protection/international-dimension-data-pr
otection/adequacy-decisions_en
[accessed March 18,
2021].
19
https://www.surf.nl/files/2019-01/model-gezamenlijk-verantwoordelijkenovk-1.0.pdf
[accessed March 18, 2021].
