UM Data Management Code of Conduct
CODE OF CONDUCT FOR RESEARCH DATA MANAGEMENT UNIVERSITY OF MAASTRICHT
Research data
Research data is valuable for Maastricht University (hereinafter UM). They always play
more important role in the scientific process and must be managed carefully and with integrity
to enable reuse and verification of research results. Data management is
indispensable and includes all actions that lead to digital research data
findable, accessible and understandable in the long term: organization, documentation, storage,
sharing and archiving research data. In addition to classification based on availability,
integrity and confidentiality (BIV), inherent security measures1 and privacy legislation2 a
important role. Data management works best by far when it's in the beginning
research process is planned. Data Management Plans, or Data Sharing Plans, are for this
an excellent tool.
In the context of data management, research data means all data that are
collected during scientific research. There Is A Great Variation In Types Of Research Data: The
may include text, images, sound, spreadsheets, databases, statistical data,
geographic data, etc. Depending on the research method, some data may
are easily reproduced and others are determined by time and place. These characteristics
partly determine the need to archive data.
1. goal
The aim of research data management is to guarantee the accessibility and protection of
research data against theft, misuse, damage or loss. The researcher must be certain of this
state that his/her research data is adequately recorded, archived, accessible and
made accessible to researchers at UM and researchers at other institutions and/or
companies through (infrastructural) facilities for a sufficient period of time. This serves
substantiation of the research on which the data are based (authentication, validation),
for doing new and innovative research based on existing information and for
record any intellectual property developed with said research.
2. Storage
Research data must be submitted at the latest at the end of the research project, or as soon as possible
applicable faculty guidelines or other applicable rules, to
are stored and archived in data made available or designated for this purpose by or via UM
(infrastructural) facilities. In case research data are part of a data that is managed elsewhere
collection, the UM researcher must refer to this adequately and also mention it
(if applicable) at what time(s) these data in the collection managed elsewhere for which
(groups of) third parties will become accessible.
3. Retention Periods
To the extent no longer period is prescribed by any applicable legal,
contractual or subsidy rule or faculty guidelines, the stored research data must be kept
Reference is made to the links classification guideline and measures database on the website of the University
Maastricht (www.maastrichtuniversitv.nl/informatiebeveiliqing)
2 The researcher draws up a privacy impact analysis (PIA) in which the identified risks are indicated
in the context of the Personal Data Protection Act and what measures are provided for this
mitigate risks. The PIA covers the entire research process (data acquisition, analysis, storage, retrieval,
archiving and destruction. See also www.maastrichtuniversity.nl/web/mainl/sitewide/sitewidelO/privacy.htm and
the Code of Conduct for the Use of Personal Data in Scientific Research for a period of at least 10 years after the time of last publication based on
the relevant dates.
4. Ownership
Research data collected in the context of an employment contract, internship, secondment at, or on behalf of, UM
generated by the researcher are, in principle, the property or secret information of the researcher
UM unless UM has agreed otherwise in a separate contract with a third party(ies).
has made. The researcher must ensure that the data, during the applicable
retention period, are available at all times for inspection and use by UM.
5. Dilation
Research data must be provided with adequate metadata by the researcher. In case of
encrypted data, the researcher must manage the relevant key(s) separately from the data and
at the latest at the end of the research project, or as much earlier as applicable faculty
prescribe, store and archive guidelines or other applicable rules
facilities made available or designated for this purpose by or via UM or third parties.
6. Disclosure