 
 © 2020  Vrije Universiteit, Amsterdam  
Research Data Management policy  
Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam  | Version 2.0, 17 -2-2020 
 
INTRODUCTION  
Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam is strongly committed to the accessibility of research output, namely  
publications and data.1  They are important to the visibility, verifiability and reusability of research.2 
  
This policy document summarizes the university -wide principles for care ful handling of research data. 
At the level of the faculties, these principles are developed into faculty guidelines that comply with 
the central policy and cover all departments and research institutes.  
  
This document shows how the responsibilities with respect to research data are covered  within the 
VU, based on the Netherlands Code of Conduct for Research Integrity (previously Netherlands Code 
of Conduct for Academic  Practice ) from the VSNU , the Standard Evaluation Protocol (SEP) for 
Research Assessments in the Netherlands 2015 -2021, the FAIR principles3 for research data and 
relevant legislation. In addition, it presents the facilities provided by the VU for managing research 
data. The document may be updated if required by new  developments.  
 
PURPOSE OF THE RESEA RCH DATA MANAGEMENT POLICY  
This policy is intended to promote:  
1. the careful handling of research data by researchers in order to:  
- enhance the impact of their research,  
- demonstrate the scientific integrity of their research,  
- comply with legal requirements, codes of conduct and funding bodies’  demands 
regarding Research Data Management ;  
2. awareness of the importance of Research Data Management  among researchers;  
3. clarity about the responsibilities regarding Research Data Management  among researchers . 
 
 
                                                             
1 Research data are defined as recorded information that is necessary to substantiate  scientific research. 
Depending on the discipline concerned, this may involve, for example, text, images, sound, spreadsheets, 
databases, statistical data, geographic data, etc. Non -digitizable research data are outside the scope of 
this policy.  
2 See also the Vrije Universiteit’s strategic plan.  
3 See FORCE11’s website  (https://www.force11.org/group/fairgroup/fairprinciples ) for a description of the 
FAIR data principles and the article by Wilkinson et al.  (2016; doi:10.1038/sdata.2016.18 ) for an elaborate 
discussion.  RESEARCH DATA MANAGE MENT POLICY  2/6 
 
 
POLICY PRINCIPLES  
1. The VU is stro ngly committed to the accessibility of research output,  namely  publications 
and data. They are important to the visibility, verifiability and reusability of research.  
 
2. The VU subscribes to the Netherlands Code of Conduct for Scientific Integrity, drawn up  by 
the Association of Dutch Universities (VSNU).4 On the subject of handling research data, this 
code includes the following clauses:  
 
- 3.2.10 As necessary, describe how the collected research data are organized and 
classified so that they can be verified and reused.  
- 3.2.11 As far as possible, make research findings and research data public subsequent to 
completion of the research. If this is not possible, establish valid reasons for their non -
disclosure . 
- 3.3.23 Describe the data collected for and/or used in your research honestly, 
scrupulously and as transparently as possible.  
- 3.3.24 Manage the collected data carefully and store both the raw and processed 
versions for a period appropriate for the discipline and methodology at issue.  
- 3.3.25 Contribute, where appropriate, towards making data findable, accessible, 
interoperable and reusable in accordance with the FAIR principles.  
- 3.4.35 Be transparent about the method and working procedure followed and record 
them where relevant in research protocols, logs, lab journals or reports. The line of 
reasoning must be clear and the steps in the research process must be verifiable. This 
usually means that the research must be described in sufficient detail for it to be possible 
to replicate the data collection and its analysis. 
- 3.4.45 As far as possible, make research findings and research data public subsequent to 
completion of the research. If this is not possible, establish the valid reasons for this.  
 
  Additionally, t he code of conduct defines  the following duties of c are for institutions:  
- 4.4.11 Provide a research infrastructure in which good data management is the rule and 
is facilitated. 
- 4.4.12 Ensure that, as far as possible, data, software codes, protocols, research material 
and corresponding metadata can be stored  permanently.  
- 4.4.13 Ensure that all data, software codes and research materials, published or 
unpublished, are managed and securely stored for the period appropriate to the 
discipline(s) and methodology concerned.  
- 4.4.14 Ensure that, in accordance with the FAIR principles, data is open and accessible 
to the extent possible and remains confidential to the extent necessary.  
- 4.4.15 Ensure that it is clear how data, software codes and research material can be 
accessed. 
 
3. Standard Evaluation Protocol (SEP) for R esearch Assessments in the Netherlands 2015 -2021:  
- “The assessment committee considers the research unit’s policy on research integrity 
and the way in which violations of such integrity are prevented. It is interested in how 
the unit deals with research data , data management and integrity. ” 
- “Self-assessment includes explaining how the unit deals with and stores raw and 
processed data. ” 
 
                                                             
4 This refers to  the code of conduct from 2018 ( https://www.vsnu.nl/en_GB/research -integrity ). NB: the 
previous version of this R esearch Data Management  policy (2016) was based on the Code of Conduct for 
Academic Practice 2004 (version 2014).  RESEARCH DATA MANAGE MENT POLICY  3/6 
 
 
4. Research must comply  with all relevant legislation and regulations, including:  
- General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)  
- Implementation Act for the General Data Protection Regulation (UAVG)  
- Medical Research Involving Human Subjects  Act (WMO)  
- Code of Conduct for Health Research  
- Experiments on Animals Act  
 
5. Ownership of the research data is subject to intellectual property laws (Copyright Act, Patent 
Act, Databases Act), the Collective Labour Agreement for Dutch Universities (Article 1 .20-
1.23), and the regulations for Knowledge Exploitation VU5 (in Dutch) , unless otherwise 
agreed upon  with funding bodies.  
 
  
                                                             
5 Knowledge Exploitation VU : https://vunet.log in.vu.nl/services/pages/manual.aspx?cid=tcm%3a164 -
916527 -16 (in Dutch).  RESEARCH DATA MANAGE MENT POLICY  4/6 
 
 
RESPONSIBILITIES  
 
RESEARCHERS 
1. Researchers are responsible for compliance with legal and ethical requirements regarding 
their research data, including review by ethics committees6 if necessary.7 
 
2. Researchers are responsible for ensuring that their research data are reliably, traceably  and 
securely stored throughout the data life cycle8 and that they are able to re port the storage 
location of their data to the department head, for example upon  termination of their 
employment at the VU. At the same time, department heads are also responsible for making 
agreements with researchers on such issues, see article 7 under ‘ Responsibilities’ in this 
policy. 
 
3. Researchers are responsible for archiving  their research data for a minimum of ten years 
after research results are published , unless legal requirements , discipline -specific guidelines  
or contractual arrangements dictate o therwise.  The moment of publication is defined as the 
first online appearance of the publication. If there is no online publication date, the formal 
publication date of the publisher applies. If a researcher’s employment terminates between 
the events of su bmitting a publication and the actual moment of publication, agreements 
must  be made regarding  these  data archiving  responsibilities according to articles 2 and 7 
under ‘Responsibilities’ in this policy. 
 
4. Researchers are responsible for being able to share  their research data for scientific use and 
verification, by making them accessible (A in FAIR) to others, preferably and where possible 
with a Persistent Identifier .9 Before research data are shared for reuse or verification, a 
researcher has to make sure  that this is compliant with applicable legislation and ethical 
requirements. When  research data include personal data, an assessment must first take 
place to determine  whether these data can be shared and if so, under which conditions.   
 
5. The VU ensures th at research data that are generated at the VU are Findable (F in FAIR) by 
including descriptions of these datasets in the Current Research Information System (CRIS) 
of the VU.10 Researchers’ responsibilities  in this process  are as follows : researchers can 
perform this registration themselves, or they or  their  research support staff can request the 
CRIS administrator ( vuresearchportal.ub@vu.nl ) to do this registration by providing the 
necessary information (e.g . the storage location of the dataset, author information, project 
information).  
 
 
                                                             
6 See the LibGuide Research Data Management  (http://libguides.vu.nl/researchdata/laws -and-
regulations#s -lg-box-wrapper -16956668 ) for an overview of ethics committees.  
7 The university (Stichting VU) is ultimately  legally responsible for compliance with the applicable 
legislation, including the GDPR.  
8 The data life cycle encompasses the various components of dealing with research data in the different 
stages of the research process (design, analysis and conclusion): preparing, creatin g, collecting, processing, 
analyzing, storing, publishing and reusing data.  
9 See for example the website by the Dutch Digital Heritage Network for a description of Persistent 
Identifiers  (https://www.netwerkdigitaalerfgoed.nl/kennis -en-voorzieningen/digitaal -erfgoed -
houdbaar/persistent -identifiers/ ). 
10 NB: This solely concerns the registration of archived datasets. To archive the data, researchers can use  
digital VU repositories or , where appropriate,  external repositories  provided that no legal or ethical rules 
are violated in doing so.  RESEARCH DATA MANAGE MENT POLICY  5/6 
 
 
6. Researchers who collect and process personal data for their research, must  comply with the 
requirements of the GDPR and the UAVG and , additionally, they must register these activities  
in a processing register . Keeping a record of processing activities is a legal requirement 
(imposed by the GDPR). The Privacy Champions11 in the faculties are t he first point of contact 
for support on these matters.  
 
DEPARTMENT HEADS  
7. Department heads are responsible for arranging agreements with researchers in their 
departments regarding  the management of research data, particularly when a researcher’s 
employment is ending. See article 2 of this policy for more  detail.  
 
FACULTIES  
8. Faculties must establish their own Research Data Management policies which ar e applicable 
to all of their departments and institutes, and that include , where necessary, discipline -
specific protocols.  
9. The dean  annually reports on  their  faculties’ Research Data Management policies at the PO 
(Portefeuillehoudersoverleg  or Portfolio Holder ) meeting.  
 
UNIVERSITY  
10. The university is ultimately responsible for compliance with all applicable legislation 
(primarily the GDPR and UAVG ) by the VU and researchers at the VU . 
11. The university is responsible for providing basic Research Data Management  facilities .12 The 
university  also facilitates the findability of research data through the registration of datasets 
in CRIS (see also article 5 under ‘Responsibilities’ in this policy ) and supports researchers , 
whenever possible,  with this dataset registration  process .13 
12. The university is  responsible for providing Research Data Management  training, support and 
advice to researchers.  
 
FACILITIES  
1. The VU supports researchers in planning, managing, analyzing and archiving research data. 
The LibGuide Research Data Management14 offers a summary of all relevant products and 
support services and provides more information on all aspects of Research Data 
Management . 
2. For the registration of research w ith personal data the VU has a record of processing 
activities . Each faculty and business unit has one or more Privacy Champions who provide 
first- line support. There is a list of these Privacy Cham pions15 available on VUnet . In addition, 
the VU has legal experts on matters relating to privacy16 at the department of Institutional 
Affairs, who provide second -line support. The VU also has a Data Protection Officer (DPO)17 
                                                             
11 See VUnet for the list of Privacy Champions  
(https://vunet.login.vu.nl/services/pages/categorydetail.aspx?cid=tcm:165- 890669-
16&category=tcm:165 -892563- 1024).  
12 The available  facilities can be found on the Research Data theme site on VUnet  
(https://vunet.login.vu.nl/themes/pages/standaard.aspx?cid=tcm%3a165 -414220 -16) and the LibGuide 
Research Data Management  (http://libguides.vu.nl/researchdata ). 
13 The University Library (UL) will provide this support.  
14 LibGuide Research Data Management : http://libguides.vu.nl/rese archdata.  
15 List of Privacy Champions : https://vunet.login.vu.nl/services/pages/categorydetail.aspx?cid=tcm:165 -
890669 -16&categor y=tcm:165 -892563 -1024.  
16 Legal privacy experts : https://vunet.login.vu.nl/services/pages/categorydetail.aspx?cid=tcm:165-
851499 -16&category=tcm:165- 851784 -1024.  
17 Data Protection Officer : RESEARCH DATA MANAGE MENT POLICY  6/6 
 
 
who monitors compl iance with legislation regarding the protection of personal data by the 
VU. The DPO has an independent advisory role.  
3. The VU provides the following support regarding IT and information security:  
a. General questions from researchers about information security  can be addressed 
via the  RDM Support Desk ( rdm@vu.nl ). These concern practical questions, for 
example , about choosing a suitable storage facility for research data.  
b. (Potential) security incidents  must be reported to the  IT Service Desk 
(servicedesk.it@vu.nl ). Security incidents occur when the confidentiality, integrity 
or availability of information or data processing systems has been threatened, or 
potentially threatened, for example , attempts to gain unauthorized access to 
information (h acking), the loss of a USB stick containing  sensitive information, or 
data or hardware theft.  
c. For t ailored advice or support , contact  IT relationship management. T he IT 
relationship managers bring researchers into contact with the correct people so that 
they can request  IT capacity for the purpose of setting up and/or assessing security 
plans . Security plans generally need to be drawn up when : research projects have  
complex infrastructure s (e.g.  international collaboration,  the use of various data 
sources and databases) ; customized technical solutions are required ; or funding 
agencies or external partners  require such a plan . 
d. For q uestions about the assessment of policy and strategy concerning  information 
security  contact the  Information Security Officer (ISO)18. This , for example , concerns 
questions about the consequences of using  new techniques for  information security, 
or which steps research groups need to take to work according to guidelines for 
information security.  
 
                                                             
https://vu net.login.vu.nl/services/pages/practicalinformation.aspx?cid=tcm%3a164- 913083- 16. 
18 Information Security Officer : 
https://vunet.login.vu.nl/organization/pages/department.aspx?cid=tcm%3a165- 882892- 16. 