 
Research Data Management policy  
UNIVERSITY OF TWENTE  
 
 
 
September  2018  
Vastgesteld door CvB op 17 9 2018  
Kenmerk LISA -0233 
 
 
    UNIVERSITY OF TWENTE  
RESEARCH DATA MANAGEMENT POLICY   2 / 14 CONTENTS  
1 Introduction  .................................................................................................................................... 3 
2 What benefits can RDM bring r esearchers?  ................................................................................... 4 
3 RDM policy at the UT  ...................................................................................................................... 5 
4 RDM policy implementation  ........................................................................................................... 7 
Appendix 1: FAIR principles  ................................................................................................................. 9 
Appendix 2: Regulations, guidelines, codes, and policies relevant for RDM  .................................... 10 
Appendix 3: Roles and responsibilities  .............................................................................................. 11 
Appendix 4: Glossary  ......................................................................................................................... 14 
 
    UNIVERSITY OF TWENTE  
RESEARCH DATA MANAGEMENT POLICY   3 / 14  
1 INTRODUCTION  
Good scientific practice is one of the main reasons to manage research data1 during and archive the 
data after the project. It is important to keep available the raw, processed and/or analyzed data, as 
well as the documentation necessary for understanding the data and the way it was collected, 
processed and analyzed. This plays an important role in accountability issues, and allows the 
researcher to reuse his/her own data or to return to earlier stages of the research process when needed. As a result, research will be r eproducible and verifiable. Proper research data management 
(RDM) makes science more transparent, and improves scientific integrity and societal trust.  
Open Science, FAIR data  
More recently, Open Science  and the wish to make optimal use of publicly -funded scientific 
publications and data developed into a second main reason for RDM. The results of research -publications and data - should be available for other scientists and for society. This favors both 
citizens and entrepreneurs, while researchers benefit i n terms of funding and acknowledgement of 
impact in research evaluations.   
As a general policy, research data underlying publications should be Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, and Re -usable (FAIR, see appendix 1). This does not mean, however, that all  data 
should be ‘open’. The basic principle is that data should be open to the public whenever possible and 
closed when needed. Closure, temporary closure (embargo) or limited/restricted access can be 
justified by, for instance, arrangements with research funders, the General Data Protection 
Regulation (GDPR, in Dutch: Algemene verordening gegevensbescherming, AVG), public safety, 
and/or intellectual property  rights of third parties .  
These insights are gradually translated and formalized in international, national and local policies and frameworks formulated by science institutions, research funding agencies, and policy makers (see 
appendix 2). In the Dutch National coalition agreement 2017, ‘Open science’ and ‘Open access’ are presented as n ormative.   
New UT data policy  
In 2015 the UT accepted the first version of a research data policy. Since that time the issue of the 
responsibility of universities for managing the research data they generate, obtain and (fully or 
partially) own has become more important. This is due  to the growing attention to the proper 
handling of research data in scientific practice, the increasing amount of (digital) data, and the  
growing demand of integrity and open science. Therefore, the UT- data policy of 2015 is upd ated, 
resulting in this RDM policy, which pays more attention to the benefits of RDM for the researcher 
and gives more specifically defined instructions  on good research data management at the UT.  
The aim of this RDM policy is to stimulate the awareness of  the need and benefits of good research 
data management (section 2) and offer clear rules for managing research data at the UT (section 3). 
Both sections are relevant for the main target group: the UT scientific community, e.g. researchers 
and research man agers, who have the main responsibility of data management in research projects. 
 
1 Bold italic concepts are explained in appendix 4: Glossary    UNIVERSITY OF TWENTE  
RESEARCH DATA MANAGEMENT POLICY   4 / 14 Besides, also general managers in the faculties and those who are involved in research data 
management support can benefit from this document, especially section 3.  
This Research Data Management policy  as well as  practical information and general information 
about RDM , can be found at www.utwente.nl/researchsupport . 
 
2 WHAT BENEFITS CAN RDM BRING RESEARCHERS?  
RDM can bring researchers several benefits, which can be categorized as follows:  
1.    Reputation and impact   
• Good RDM allows for the publishing of datasets and consequently its citation. This improves 
the visibility of your research and therefore its citation rate, reputation, and its scientific 
impact.   
• When citizen science  is used for data collection, and open data are used by societal parties, 
societal impact is improved.  
• More scientific and societal impact will lead to better results  in research assessments and 
staff evaluations.   
 
2. Quality, efficiency, safety and integrity  
 
• Good RDM improves the quality of research. Your data are always accurate, complete, 
authentic and reliable. Making the data early and easy available to colleagues and reviewers, provides you with an extra quality check.  
• On the basis of your data, others can quite simply verify your results. Open data reduces the risk of manipulation.  
• RDM reduces the risk of data loss by keeping your research data safe and  secure.   
• After an initial investment in time, planning for your data management needs and documenting your data throughout its life cycle can save you time and resources in the long 
run.  
• Enabling other researchers to use your data or being able to use ot her researchers data  
prevents duplication of effort.   
3.    Reuse, new results and new collaborations   
• You can benefit from findable and reusable high quality data collected by other researchers.  
• Reuse and re -analysis of data make possible the testing of new or alternative hypotheses and 
methods of analysis; enables the exploration of topics not envisioned by the initial 
investigators; encourages diversity of analysis and opinion.  
• Combining datasets from multiple sources through meta- analysis promotes ne w types of 
research and permits the creation of new data se ts, information, and knowledge.   
• Open data practices facilitate collaboration within and outside your discipline. This allows the 
crossing of boundaries of disciplines and institutions, and leads to co -publications.    UNIVERSITY OF TWENTE  
RESEARCH DATA MANAGEMENT POLICY   5 / 14 3 RDM PO LICY AT THE UT  
As a general starting point  the UT RDM policy  implies that faculties and/or  research groups   
• support the implementation of the FAIR -principles: Research data must be Findable, 
Accessible , Interoperable, and Re -usable (see appendix 1)  
• commit to the general principle that research data is classified as public data unless there are 
specific requirements to maintain the confidentiality of research data, such as when a 
researcher is bound to protect the confidential information of a collaborating company or 
when the data relates to human subjects  
• stimulate awareness regarding RDM practices  and develop a  culture in which researchers are 
stimulated to and rewarded for sharing data  
• include the provi sion of  RDM -training and -support to researchers  
• facilitate  solid infrastructure and tools for storing and archiving research data both during 
and after the research  
• monitor  the development and execution of Data Management Plans  (DMP)  
Privacy regulations  
When applicable, special attention must be given to handling with personal data. Specific RDM 
policies within a faculty must comply with the GDPR (in Dutch: AVG).  For more information about 
privacy related issues , see : 
1. UT privacy policy : www.utwente.nl/en/cyber -safety/cybersafety/legislation  
2. UT privacy statement: www.utwente.nl/en/about -our-website  
3. Privacy guidelines for research: www.utwente.nl/en/cyber -
safety/cybersafety/privacy/guideline -for-research/  
Data management plan  
Good RDM starts with the writing of a data management plan . Most research funders require a DMP as part of funding application or to be handed in shortly after the start of the project. Specific RDM 
regulations  in the faculty must describe the procedure about when and where a DMP has to be 
handed in and how reviewing and monitoring is organized .  
• Every research project must have a DMP. The DMP can be derived from the specific RDM regulations and procedures at the nearest organizational level in the faculty.  
• Every PhD -student follow s the TGS -course Research Data Management as a preparation of the 
writing of a DMP.  
• The DMP has to be reviewed and monitored regularly, in line with planning and progress of the 
research project.  
Data storage  
To prevent data loss during a research project  research data and related materials  must be stored 
properly .  
• All collected research data, including related materials  (e.g.  protocols, models or questionnaires) , 
must be stored in the ISO 27001 - and NEN 7510 -certified facilities. 
Certified data storage   UNIVERSITY OF TWENTE  
RESEARCH DATA MANAGEMENT POLICY   6 / 14 facilities  are offered by the UT -ICT services (LISA). If applicable, terms of use of data suppliers are 
leading.  
• Personal cloud services  must only be used for copies and comply with legal and contractual 
conditions. The preferred personal cloud service is Surfdrive . This service complies to the Dutch 
and European privacy legislation. 
• Storage of research data on portable devices must be avoided as much as possible, if needed 
should only be used for copies and must comply with legal and contractual conditions. 
• Personal, confidential or classified research data  and related materials, such as consent forms, 
must be stored in accordance with relevant Dutch legislation and European regulation and the VSNU Conduct code for the use of personal data in scientific research (
UNL Code of conduct for 
using personal data in research ) for which U T-storage mentioned above is available.  
• Non- digital research data and related materials, such as physical samples and lab notebooks, 
must be handled in accordance with clearly described procedures within the organisational unit 
and/or project.  
Data documentation 
In line with the FAIR principle s data must be well documented, during the dynamic phase of the data 
and especially as s oon as they have become static.  
• Research data  and related materials, both digital and non- digital,  must be accompanied by 
proper metadata  and documentation in such a way that it enables  the verification, replication 
and, if possible, reuse of the data.  This documentation must also contain information about 
property rights and te rms of use.  
Data sharing  
To guarantee that data can be accessed and checked during the research digital and/or non -digital 
research data and related materials  must be shared . Implementation is dependent of intellectual 
property and responsib ilities regarding research data, and the terms of use of data suppliers . 
• During the research project data and related materials must be shared in such a way that, apart 
from the researcher, it can be accessed by at least one other member of the organisational unit.  
Before the end of the project all research data and related materials which is needed for 
verification/replication and reuse, must be made available to the responsible in the 
organisational unit (see also RDM roles and responsibilities).  
• Personal, confidential or classified research data and related materials, such as consent forms, must be shared in accordance with relevant Dutch legislation and European regulation and the 
VSNU Con duct code for the use of personal data in scientific research (
UNL Code of conduct for 
using personal data in research ). The ISO 27001 - and NEN 7510- certified project - and 
organization directory of the UT is recommended for secure sharing of personal data.   
• In case of a Non- Disclosure Agreement with third parties, arrangements must be made about 
sharing data during the research.  
Data archiving  
For the purpose of verification, replication and reuse  research data and related materials  must be  
archived after the research project.  Implementation is dependent of intellectual property and 
responsib ilities regarding research data, and the terms of use of data suppliers    UNIVERSITY OF TWENTE  
RESEARCH DATA MANAGEMENT POLICY   7 / 14 • Selection of research data and related materials for long- term preservation is based on what is 
needed for verification/replication and reuse. This must be at least the research data that form 
the basis of and can therefore be linked to publications. The selection to be archived can also 
comprise the full set of raw and/or processed data. In case of large data sets archiving costs, for 
both preparation and storage, should be taken into account when applying for project funding.  
• Preferably during, but not later than 1 month after finishing the research selected data and 
related materials are archived in  both group or faculty facilities and in a trusted repository , in 
accordance with FAI R-principles (see appendix  1) and, in compliance with legal and contractual 
conditions, openly accessible. The preferred archive for data from the technical and beta sciences is 4TU.ResearchData, and DANS
 for data from the social sciences.  
• Selected research data and related materials must be archived at least for 10 years, unless legal or contractual regulations demand another term.  
• Non- digital research data and related materials, such as physical samples or lab notebooks, must 
be archived in secure UT -provisions accompanied with clearly described access procedures.  
• In case of a Non- Disclosure Agreement with third parties, arrange ments must be made about 
archiving and sharing of  data for verification and replication.  
• Archived research data and related materials, both digital and non- digital, are accompanied with 
proper metadata for findability and good documentation for reasons of interpretation and 
reusability (see also data documentation and data registration).  
Data registration  
Because research data is becoming a valuable asset and in the near future will be formally recognized 
as scientific output, it is important to know what digital and/or non- digital research data and related 
materials have been created or used and where these are located.  
• In addition to archiving, all digital and/or non- digital research data and related materials must be 
registered and described by metadata, including a link or reference to the location of the digital 
or non -digital objects.  
• The preferred system for registration of digital and/or non- digital research data and related 
materials is Pure Research Information
 because of automatic ingest of metadata from other 
systems (such as 4TU.R esearch Data). Moreover these data and related materials can be linked to 
the registered UT publications based on t hem.  
 
4 RDM POLIC Y IMPLEMENTATION  
Although dealing with research data may vary a lot per research discipline, the Executive Board has 
formulated this RDM policy as a framework of proper and responsible handling of research data. 
Faculties must implement  this policy at one or more organizat ional levels (faculty, department, group 
and/or other unit) and supplement it with regulations and procedures related to the specific 
character or circumstances of the research discipline in question.  
RDM regulations and procedures  in the facult y must be available on the relevant  websites or intranet 
and communicated in such a way that every researcher can easily find these.  
RDM roles and responsibilities    UNIVERSITY OF TWENTE  
RESEARCH DATA MANAGEMENT POLICY   8 / 14 When implementing the UT RDM policy in the faculty  it is important to identify and formalize RDM 
roles  and responsibilities . This can comprise responsibilities like having and maintaining a RDM  policy  
on one or more organizational levels in the faculty  as well as monitoring the compliance to this 
policy. Also, operational RDM responsibilities must be addre ssed, like stimulating RDM awareness, 
the writing and monitoring of  Data Management Plan s (DMP) , and the implementation and 
maintenance of necessary RDM facilities. An overview of RDM roles and responsibilities can be found 
in appendix 3.  
In case of third party involvement, roles and responsibilities regarding research data management 
must be included in agreements. Good research data management is the shared responsibility of all 
parties involved. In principle , intellectual property rights on researc h data (“database right”) shall 
vest in UT.  
In line with the university’s responsibility regarding RDM, support, infrastructure and facilities are 
offered by service department LISA. Specific RDM support, infrastructure and facilities can also be 
offered b y faculties or other organizational units, in some cases in cooperation with LISA.  
    UNIVERSITY OF TWENTE  
RESEARCH DATA MANAGEMENT POLICY   9 / 14 APPENDIX 1: FAIR PRINCIPLES  
Preamble  
One of the grand challenges of data -intensive science is to facilitate knowledge discovery by assisting 
humans and machines in their  discovery of, access to, integration and analysis of, task -appropriate 
scientific data and their associated algorithms and workflows. Here, we describe FAIR - a set of 
guiding principles to make data Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, and Re -usable .  
 
To be Findable: 
F1. (meta)data are assigned a globally unique and eternally persistent identifier.  
F2. data are described with rich  metadata.  
F3. (meta)data are  registered  or indexed in a searchable resource.  
F4. metadata  specify  the data identifier.  
To be Accessible:  
A1 (meta)data are retrievable by their identifier using a standardized communications protocol.  
A1.1 the protocol  is open, free, and universally implementable.  
A1.2 the protocol allows for an  authentication and authorization p rocedure, where necessary.  
A2 metadata are accessible , even when the data are no longer available.  
To be Interoperable:  
I1. (meta)data use a  formal, accessible, shared, and broadly applicable language  for knowledge 
representation.  
I2. (meta)data use  vocabu laries  that follow FAIR principles.  
I3. (meta)data include  qualified references  to other (meta)data.  
To be Re -usable:  
R1. meta(data) have a plurality of accurate and relevant attributes.  
R1.1. (meta)data are released with a  clear and accessible  data usage license. 
R1.2. (meta)data are associated with their  provenance.  
R1.3. (meta)data  meet domain -relevant community standards. 
 
Source and further information: https://www.force11.org/group/fairgroup/fairprinciples   
    UNIVERSITY OF TWENTE  
RESEARCH DATA MANAGEMENT POLICY   10 / 14  
APPENDIX 2: R EGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, CODES, AND P OLICIES RELEVANT 
FOR RDM   
  
This is a list of regulations, guidelines, codes, and policies which are  useful or necessary to read when 
writing a data policy or data management plan. This RDM policy is based or in line with these 
guidelines.  
INTERNATIONAL  
• European Code of Conduct for Research Integrity (
https://ec.europa.eu/research/participants/data/ref/h2020/other/hi/h2020 -ethics_code- of-
conduct_en.pdf )  
• EU General Data Protection Regu lation (GDPR) ( https://gdpr -info.eu/ )  
• EU guidelines for data management ( http://ec.europa.eu/research/participants/docs/h2020 -
funding- guide/cross -cutting -issues/open- access -data -management/data -
management_en.htm ) 
NATIONAL  
• National Plan Open Science ( https://www.openscience.nl/en )  
• Netherlands  Code of Conduct for Research Integrity 
(https://www.universiteitenvannederland.nl/files/documents/Netherlands%20Code%20of%
20Conduct%20for%20Research%20Integrity%202018.pdf ) 
• Algemene verordening gegevensbescherming (AVG, see also GDPR) 
(https://autoriteitpersoonsgegevens.nl/nl/onderwerpen/avg-nieu we-europese -
privacywetgeving , in Dutch)  
• UNL Code of conduct for using personal data in research (https://www.universiteitenvannederland.nl/en_GB/code -personal -data
) 
• NWO Data  management protocol 
(https://www.nwo.nl/en/policies/open+science/data+management  ) 
LOCAL  (University of Twente)  
• Code of Conduct on ICT and Internet Use (https://www.utwente.nl/en/cyber -
safety/cybersafety/legislation/gedragscode -ict-mw-en.pdf  ) 
• Information secu rity policy ( https://www.utwente.nl/en/cyber -
safety/cybersafety/legislation/informatiebeveiligingsbeleid -engels -def.pdf  ) 
• Privacy policy UT ( https://www.utwente.nl/en/cyber -safety/cybersafety/legislation/privacy -
policy -university -of-twente- 20161017- nieuwe -linkjes -2017.pdf  ) 
    UNIVERSITY OF TWENTE  
RESEARCH DATA MANAGEMENT POLICY   11 / 14 APPENDIX 3: ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
This is an overview of suggested RDM roles and responsibilities which can be implemented in the 
faculty.  
THE RESEARCHER  
• writes a data management plan (DMP) in accordance with the RDM data  regulations and 
procedures of the nearest organizational unit in the faculty  
• obtains and maintains knowledge of data management by means of RDM -course(s)  
• develops and adopts appropriate procedures and processes for collecting, documenting, 
storing, processing, using, accessing and sharing of the collected or generated research 
data and for selecting and archiving the research data  
• guarantees the integrity, quality, security an d persistent availability of the collected or 
generated data  
• acts in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act (GDPR) and other legal, 
contractual and ethical rules and regulations  
• budgets the costs and time investment for data management  
• updates t he DMP when necessary.  
THE PROJECT COORDINATOR/SUPERVISOR(S)  
• reviews the DMP written by the researcher  
• checks the compliance of the DMP with the relevant RDM regulations and procedures in 
the faculty /university , and with legal, contractual and ethical rule s and regulations  
• checks that the DMP is part of the researcher’s qualifier report (in case of PhD’ers)  
• monitors the correct execution and updating of the DMP in accordance with the relevant 
RDM  regulations and procedures in the faculty /university  and with  legal, contractual and 
ethical rules and regulations  
• documents the agreements made on data management in the case of joint research 
projects or contract research where responsibility for data management rests in  principle 
with the project coordinator  
• checks the integrity, quality, security and persistent availability of the collected or 
generated data  
• arranges the necessary resources, facilities and support for data management in the research  
THE HEAD OF THE RESEARCH GROUP  
• is responsible for having RDM  regulations and procedures on the level of his or her own 
research group  or disseminating information in the group about RDM regulations and 
procedures on other level(s) in the faculty.  
• supervises and monitors the correct execution and updating of the  group  RDM 
regulations and procedures  (if available ) 
• supervises and monitors the correct execution of data management in the research 
group in accordance with the group regulations and procedures or other relevant RDM 
regulations and procedures  in the f aculty and with legal, policy and ethical rules and 
regulations    UNIVERSITY OF TWENTE  
RESEARCH DATA MANAGEMENT POLICY   12 / 14 • is responsible for the correct selection and persistent availability of data of all projects of 
the research group for the purpose of verification/replication and reuse  
• arranges the availability of the necessary resources, facilities and support for data 
management in the research group  
• creates and supervises awareness and  keeps  knowledge of the group or other relevant 
RDM regulations and procedures  in the faculty , and d ata management in general, in the 
research group at the desired level  
THE FACULTY BOARD  
• is responsible for having RDM  regulations and procedures  at one or more organizational 
levels in the faculty as implementation of the UT RDM  policy , and in accordance with 
legal, contractual and ethical rules and regulations  
• supervises and monitors the correct execution and updating of the RDM regulat ions and 
procedures  in the faculty in accordance with legal, policy and ethical rules and 
regulations  
• arranges the availability of the necessary resources, facilities and support for data management in the faculty  
• creates and supervises awareness and  keeps  knowledge of RDM regulations and 
procedures  in the faculty , and data management in general, in the faculty at the desired 
level.  
THE RECTOR MAGNIFICUS  
• is responsible for having and maintaining a UT RDM  policy which contributes to scientific 
integrity and societal trust  
• facilitates and monitors the implementation of the UT RDM policy  as a framework for 
good research data management on other levels in the university  
RDM SUPPORT RESPONSIBILITIES  
On all levels t he execution of the RDM polic y and operational RDM responsibilities  is supported by 
members or organisational units within the faculties, in certain cases in cooperation with the service departments. Service departments have different and in some cases shared responsibilities for RDM 
support. As a basic principle, faculties determine what RDM -support they demand from the service 
departments.  
General RDM: LISA  
• Coordination of research data management support  
• Advice and support on general research data management issues, during both plan ning 
and implementation  
• Keeping record of and participation in national and international RDM developments  
 
Policy issues: LISA and S&B  
• Data policy or procedure preparation and implementation support on university, faculty 
and research group level  
• Support on compliancy of data policies  and procedures  with relevant legislation, 
regulations, guidelines, etc.    UNIVERSITY OF TWENTE  
RESEARCH DATA MANAGEMENT POLICY   13 / 14 Awareness and training: LISA  
• Organization of courses/workshops RDM for researchers and research groups.  
• Stimulation of awareness about RDM on ind ividual and organizational level.  
 
Funder requirements: SBD (EU -office) and LISA  
 
• Advice and support on research data management requirements of funders.  
Legal and ethical issues: General Affairs and LISA  
• Advice and support on legal and ethical issues related to the collection, storage, access, 
sharing and archiving of research data  
• Registration and investigation of data breaches  
 
Infrastructure and facilities: LISA  
 
• Infrastructure and facilities for collection, storage, access, sharing and archiving of 
research data, both internal and external UT (preferably integrated with infrastructure 
and facilities for data processing and analysis)  
• Infrastructure and facilities for writing and monitoring data management plans and RDM 
procedures  
 
    UNIVERSITY OF TWENTE  
RESEARCH DATA MANAGEMENT POLICY   14 / 14 APPENDIX 4: GLOSSARY 
 
  
Certified storage  Storage formally approved as compliant with one or more 
standards. The UT network storage (M - and P -drive) is certified for 
ISO 27001 and NEN 7510, which means that it is suitable for 
storing the most highly sensitive data (e.g. medical data).  
Classified data  
 Data classified to a certain level of sensitivity and related level of 
protection.  
Citizen science  Scientific research conducted, in whole or in part, by amateur (or 
non-professional) scientists. (source: Wikipedia)  
Data management plan  Formal document that outlines how data are to be handled both 
during a research project, and after the project is com pleted. It 
normally consists of the following sections: data collection, storage and backup, documentation, access, sharing and reuse, and preservation and archiving.  
Intellectual property  Category of property that includes intangible creations of the 
hum an intellect, and primarily encompasses copyrights, patents, 
and trademarks. (s ource: Wikipedia)  
Metadata  Data which provide information about a dataset, such as the 
creator(s), the subject of the data, the type of file, and geographic information.  
Open Science  The practicing of science in a sustainable manner which gives 
others the opportunity to work with, contribute to and make use 
of the scientific process. (source: National Plan Open Science)  
Personal cloud service  Storage of data in the cloud, related to a personal account. When 
the account is cancelled, data will be deleted automatically.  
Research data  (and related 
materials)  Data, both physical and digital, that is collected, created and/or 
used in the framework of a resear ch project and (partly) intended 
to produce and validate research findings. In the context of 
research data management also data related materials, such as  
models, instruments, lab notebooks, protocols, questionnaires and 
informed consents must be taken into account.  
Trusted repository  Trusted repositories are data archives for long -term preservation 
having a Core trust seal or Data Seal of Approval 
(https://www.coretrustseal.org/  ) 
 
 
 
 