 
1 
 
 
Research Data Management  Regulation  
Introduction  
Research data are of great value to Tilburg University and should be managed  in a responsible 
manner . Responsible research data management is essential , from the princ iples of 
‘scrupulousness and transparency’  as stated in ‘The Netherlands Code of Conduct for  Research 
Integrity’ . Furthermore, it is in line with the conditions of national and European resea rch fund ers 
to stimulat e open science and reuse of research data.  
 
‘The Netherlands Code of Conduct for Research Integrity ’ denominates  the institutions’  duties of 
care to promote and maintain compliance with the code. The Tilburg University  Strateg y 
emphasizes the importance of research integrity,  and encourages researchers to make their data 
and research materials publicly available  if possible . 
Although managing  research data may vary considerably across  research discipline s, the 
Executive Board cho oses to offer one  university -wide Research Data Management R egulation, 
in which the joint principles  for responsible management of research data are stated. The aim of 
research data management is to guarantee accessibility to research data and protection o f 
research data against theft, misuse, damage , and loss. The researcher should take care to 
adequate ly store and archiv e his/her research data , and make them retrievable and a ccessib le. 
Responsible data storage leads to transparency  (e.g. allowing other researchers to check 
published results ) and offers possibilities for knowledge dissemination, meta -analysis , and re -
analysis. Schools will specify the Research Data Management Regulation  in an operating 
procedure  for their School, tai lored to the specific circumstances of the research disci pline in 
question and internal School processes.  
 
  2 
 1. Framework  
The research data generated at Tilburg University  are stored, managed , and made 
accessible in accordance with the legal demands (c opyrigh t act, privacy act etc.) developed 
to this purpose, and the relevant codes of conduct:  
a. The Netherlands Code of Conduct for Research Integrity. Effective as of October 1, 
2018:  
https://www.vsnu.nl/files/documents/Netherlands%20Code%20of%20Conduct%20for%2
0Research%20Integrity%202018.pdf   
b. The Netherlands Code of Conduct for Scientific Practice. Principles of good academic 
education and research. Decreed 31 October 2014. VSNU: 
http://vsnu.nl/files/documenten/Domeinen/Onderzoek/The_Netherlands_Code%20of_Co
nduct_for_Academic_Practice_2004_(version2014).pdf  
c. Tilburg University Scientific  Integrity Regulation , 2012: 
https://www.tilburguniversity.edu/sites/tiu/files/download/letter_2.pdf   
d. Code of Conduc t for the use of personal data  in academic research , 2005 : 
https://www.vsnu.nl/files/documenten/Domeinen/Accountability/Codes/Gedragscode%20
persoonsgegevens.pdf  (not available in English , the code is  currently under 
reconstruction ) 
 
Resea rch data generated by a Tilburg University  researcher comply with the ‘FAIR Guiding 
Principles for scientific data management and stewardship’. The (meta)data are  Findable, 
Accessible, Interoperable, and Reusable . 
https://www.go -fair.org/fair -principles/  
 
2. Definitions  
Research data  
By research data is meant: All (digital and non -digital) data collected and generated during 
academic research, the instruments with which the research data were collected , and other 
relevant information  such as  questionnaires, software, scripts, and lab journals.  
 
Metadata  
By metadata is meant: Documentation and/or information on research data , required to 
understand the content  of the  data and the context in which the data were collected . 
 
3. Responsibilities  
The researcher/project manager is responsible, at  the implementation level, for:  
a. secure data storage during and after the research , for both raw and processed 
research data ; 
b. responsible  data management in accordance with the principles  of the Research 
Data Management Regulation  and the additional School’s research data 
management policy;  
c. creating a data management plan preceding new research in accordance with the 
provisions of the School’s research data management  policy and observing the 
obligations mentioned in Article 8 of the Research Data Man agement Regulation  in 
case personal data  are processed for the research ;  
d. observing Article 9  of the Research Data Management  Regulation  when research is 
conducted with or for third parties;  3 
 e. familiariz ing students and PhD candidates  (performing activities within the area of a 
Tilburg University  researcher’s responsibility) with the Research Data Management  
Regulation  and the School’s research data management policy and supervising this.  
The Dean of the School in question is responsible for:  
a. elaborating  the Research Data Management Regulation  in a School  policy  and/or 
procedure ; 
b. informing the acad emic personnel about the Research Data Management  Regulation  
and the School’s research data management policy;  
c. supervising compliance with  the Research Data Management  Regulation  and the 
School ’s research data management policy;  
d. reporting to the Executive Board in the annual research report on how the data 
management  has been given form and content.  This also includes a report on the 
degree to which the researchers in the School comply with the Regulation and the 
measures taken should the c ompliance be incomplete.  
The Executive Board is responsible for:  
a. formulating a general university policy framework as determined in the Research 
Data Management  Regulation ; 
b. offering knowledge, advice , and support regarding  data management;  
c. offering an ade quate infrastructure for data storage and management insofar  as the 
Schools need additional adequate facilities for data storage;  
d. carrying out and  supervising audits  about the compliancy with  the Research Data 
Management  Regulation . 
 
4. Storage  and access  
Research data should be stored securely and permanently , with minimal risk of loss,  no later 
than at the end of the research , or sooner if other rules  or regulations  are applicable . 
Research data should be stored  together with metadata and  all other  inform ation required for 
possible data reuse and verifiability . In case of encrypted research da ta, the researcher 
should keep  the key in question separate from the research data . The research data, 
metadata and other information should be stored  in facilities made available or designated by 
Tilburg University  (e.g., DataverseNL). Alternatively , it is possible to store and archive 
research data in disciplin e-specific repositories or data archives of third parties if they meet 
the following require ments . The repositories or third -party data archives:  
a. provide  facilities to enable  research data stored  in the repository to comply with the  
Research Data Management  Regulation ; 
b. use open standards for access and metadata wherever possible;  
c. are preferably certified;  
d. are technically and organizationally  sustainable .  
 
5. Storage period  
If no other  storage period is required by an applicable legal, contractual , or subsidy rule, all 
raw and processed research data must be stored for a period of at least ten years after the 
moment that the research is formally completed.  
 
 4 
 6. Ownership  
Research data, generated during  employment, internship , or secondment  to or on behalf  of 
Tilburg University , are the property of Tilburg University , unles s otherwise agreed in a 
separate contract between Tilburg University  and the employee or intern . Advice on the 
ownership of research data is obtained from the Research Data Office.  
 
7. Public disclosure  
Tilburg University  acts upon  the basic principle  that research data are made publically 
available for academic research , as far as reasonably possible,  if and insofar  as this does 
not conflict with  agreements  with research funders, confidentiality obligation s, the EU 
General Data Protection Regulation 2016/67 9 (GDPR) and/or intellectual property rights of 
third parties. A dvice on this matter is obtained from the Research Data Office. In any case, 
the metadata must  be made publically available.  
 
8. Personal data  
If the research data contain personal d ata, the mana gement of the personal data is subject 
to additional rules from the General Data Protection Regulation (EU 2016/679 , GDPR) . 
Personal d ata are processed in accordance with the  GDPR . Researchers who process 
personal data should report the intended proces sing in the university’s Data Register, and  
must inform all parties concerned in order to comply with the documentation and 
transparency obligations laid down in the GDPR . 
 
9. Third parties  
Researchers not employed by Tilburg University , such as research fell ows, external PhD 
candidates,  or students working under the responsibility of a Tilburg University  researcher, 
who conduct  research at Tilburg University  and/or in cooperation with Tilburg University  and 
thus generat e research  data, should declare in writing that they comply with the Research 
Data Managem ent Regulation , the School’s research data management policy , and, if 
applicable, the GDPR .  
In the event  of cooperation with another research organization and/or third party, it is agreed 
and record ed in writing  that if the research data are generated at the other organization, 
Tilburg University  also has the right to store the research data in conformity with the 
Research Data Management  Regulation . If the research data are generate d by both or more 
research institutions , written agreements  are made with those other institutions  on the 
management, storage, and access of the research data, as much as possible in line with the 
Research Data Management  Regulation , the S chool’s research data management policy , 
and, if applicable, the GDPR . 
When research is conducted on behalf of  an external client, it is agreed with the client that 
Tilburg University , as far as  possible , has the right to manage, save, store , and grant access  
to the research data,  in conformity with the  Research Data Management  Regulation , the 
School’s research data management policy , and, if applicable, the GDPR .  
The Dean’s consent  is required in advance when agreements with third parties involve a 
deviation from the Research Data Management Regulation , the School’s research data 
management policy , or the GDPR .  5 
 10. Entry into force  and period of validity  
The Research Data Management Regulation  applies to research commencing  after the 
effective date of January 1, 2018. The Research Data Management Regulation is valid until 
a new version is adopted  or the decision is made to revoke the Research Data Management  
Regulation .  
 
This version : Executive Board  resolution of  April 14, 2020.  
First version: Executive Board  resolution of September 5, 2017 . 
 
 
 
  6 
  
  
  
      
  
 
 
         
Guideline for the Rese arch Data Management Regulation   
        
  
  
  
7 
 Content  
Readers’ Guide  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..........................  8 
1. Data Management Plan  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 8 
2. Roles and Responsibilities  ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 9 
3. Rules and Agreements on Storage, Access, and Archiving  ................................ ................ 10 
4. Support and Training  ................................ ................................ ................................ ......... 12 
5. Rules and Agreements with Third Parties  ................................ ................................ .......... 13 
6. Rules and Agreements with Respect to Pers onal Data  ................................ ...................... 13 
7. Research Data Office  ................................ ................................ ................................ ......... 16 
 
  
     8 
 Readers’ Guide  
  
This guideline elaborates on a number of practical points from the Research Data Management 
Regulation. The guideline serves, on the one hand, as an aid for Schoo ls in the development of 
School policy and, on the other hand , as an explanation of Article 8 (Personal Data) and Article 9  
(Third Parties) of the Rese arch Data Management Regulation .  
The guideline offers:  
1. an overview of items that may be part of a School data management policy (the checklists in 
Chapters 1 through 4);  
2. instructions for dealing with the obligations of the General Data Protection Regulation 
2016/679  which entered into force on May 1, 2018 if research is carried out with personal 
data (Chapters 5 and 6);  
3. Explanation of the support services for research data management via the Research Data 
Office (RDO) (Chapter 7).  
  
Information on the School policies is available on the university’s intranet :  
TSB Data Handling & Methods Reporting Guideline (DHMR ): 
https://www.tilburguniversity.edu/intranet/organizat ion-policy/erb/tsb   
 
TSHD Data Management Policy for TSHD  
https://www.tilburguniversity.edu/intranet/organization -policy/erb/humanities  
 
TLS Ethics Review Board  
https://www.tilburguniversity.edu/intranet/information -for/scientists/research/policy/erb/tls -
ethics -review/   
 
TST Data committee and Ethics Committee  
https://www.tilburguniversity.edu/nl/intranet/organisatie -beleid/erb/theologie   
 
TiSEM Institutional Review Board (IRB)  
https://www.tilburguniversity.edu/research/economics -and-management/institutional -review -
board   
 
  
1. Data Management Plan  
  
A data management plan (DMP) is a digital document in which the researcher describes what data 
he or she will collect during a research project, how he or she will store and manage the data during 
the project, and what will happen to the data after the project has ended. The DMP is drawn up at 
the start of a new research project. Various models (templates) and checklists are available for 
drawing up a data management plan , often provided by the research institute or funding agency . 
The completed template forms the data management plan. During the course of the  project, regular 
checks are carried out to ensure that the plan is still up to date or needs to be adjusted.  9 
 The Research Data Management Regulation require s that a data management plan is written at the 
start of each new research project or program. In the School ’s data management policy the following 
matters can be agreed:  
 Who draws up the data management plan for a project?  
 For which type of research should a data management plan be drawn up? (for example, 
projects of PhD candidates and research fund ed by the NWO or other research funds);  
 How is the drafting of data management plans supervised? To whom should a data 
management plan be submitted? For information or consent?  
 How is the updating of data management plans monitored?  
 Are data management plans stored centrally? If so, where? and who has access to it?  
 Which matters that appear in a data management plan can be arranged at the level of the 
School or institute?  
  
More information on data management plans on the university intranet: 
https://www.tilburguniversity.edu/intranet/research -support/data -policy/datamanagementplan  
  
Template Tilburg University  
Tilburg University offers researchers an “Integrated form for Ethics, Data Management, and the Data 
Processing Register”. The form differs slightly for each school and can be obtained via the data 
representative of each School . 
 
Many topics that are listed in the Chapters 1 through 4  are covered in this form.  
2. Roles and Responsibilities  
  
Persons who (may) play an advisory, supporting, operational, or supervisory role in research data 
management:  
a. Domain chairperson, research director  
b. Director of the School or Research Institute  
c. Research leader (principal researcher )  
d. Researcher, lector   
e. PhD candidate   
f. Student  
g. Data steward  
h. Ethics Committee  
i. Policy o fficer  
j. Secretary’s office  
  
The School  data management policy may describe who has what responsibilities or duties  in 
dealing with research data within the School  or Research Institute.  
  10 
 Explanation Data Steward   
A data steward1 is an official, usually a researcher, who is responsible for the research data 
management in one or more research projects. He/she is responsible for the development and 
alignment of the Research Data M anagement regulation implementation and advise s researchers on 
the collection, storage, archiving and reuse of data at the School. This can pertain  to data in 
research projects of staff and PhD projects . The research director, the head of the research group, 
the princip al researcher  (leader of th e research project) or a lecto r can fulfil the role of data steward, 
and he or she can delegate tasks to o ne or more others. A data steward can also be a separate 
function.  
If desired, the position  of data steward can  be further defined in the School’s  data management 
policy, for example , by recording the following matters:  
 Who designates the data steward?  
 Who can fulfill the role of data steward?  
 What is the scope of the position : per research project, research gro up, School /Research 
Institute?  
 What are the duties  of the data steward?  
 What are the powers of the data steward?  
 Can the data steward delegate duties ? If so, which and to whom?  
 To whom does the data steward report? In what form? With what frequency?  
 How is continuity guaranteed when  a data steward  leaves ?  
3. Rules and Agreements on S torage, Access, and A rchiving  
Storage  
There are countless ways to lose data: a file is accidentally deleted, a laptop is stolen, the context of 
the data is unclear, software  becomes unusable, a file can no longer be opened, etc etera . It is , 
therefore , important that every researcher pays attention to storing, organizing , and describing his or 
her data. It is also good to make agreements about this at the level of the School, Department, or 
Research Institute. The following  could be considered :  
  
 How do you organize the safe collection of research data?  
 Where are data stored for ongoing research?  
 How are data stored?  
 How is it organized  that the raw data file cannot be changed after storage?  
 How are the data protected against loss, theft, misuse, unauthorized access?  
 How is it ensured that it is clear , at all times , which processing  the data have undergone?  
 How is version management h andled?  
 What agreements apply to non -digital data and documentation? How is the connection  
between non -digital and digital data guaranteed? This includes, for example, completed 
Informed C onsent  forms, but also samples, models, etc.   
                                                   
1 Names and positi oning of the different data ste wardship roles within academic institutes vary greatly , 
as highlighted in the report “ Data stewar dship on the map: A study of tasks and roles in Dutch 
research institutes ” (LCRDM, April/May 2019) . 11 
   
More information a bout storing research data during research on the university intranet: 
https://www.tilburguniversity.edu/intranet/research -support/management/data -storage   
Access  
 
Ongoing research  
Data from ongoing  research will of course be accessible to the researcher(s) directly 
involved, but there are more parties for whom access to the data may be necessary. In the 
School’s operating procedure/ policy , it can be describ ed:   
 Who have  access to data from current research? This includes students who participate in 
the research project; the data steward; an ethics committee; a fellow researcher who must 
continue the research if the original researcher unexpectedly drops out ;  
 How is this access organized ? By whom is access granted?  
  
Completed research  
Tilburg University is committed to ensuring that data from completed research is publicly accessible 
and available for reuse in new research. Researchers can ensure this by placing their data after 
completion of a research project in a data archive that offers the possibility of publishing the data 
and assign ing a persistent identifier  to the data (a unique code used to refer/link to the dataset) (see 
also the section on arch iving). Tilburg University offers its researchers the  institutional data 
repository DataverseNL. Tilburg University Dataverse has obtained the CoreTrustSeal quality mark.  
Datasets containing sensitive data ―intellectual property rights of third parties, per sonal data, 
corporate  information, information that can cause damage when made  public ―cannot be made  
freely  available. However, these data may be useful for new research. For many data archives it is 
possible to publish a description of this data and to ma ke the data available only on request.  
If an external party outside the regular scientific process submits a request for access to rese arch 
data, the researcher can contact the Research Data Office for legal advice. This is to prevent that 
datasets are pr ovided in violation of the rights of third parties. Conditions may be attached to the 
consent.  
Before the researcher decides to file his/her dataset  publicly , he/she will also consider whether the 
dataset may have commercial value. If so, the researcher  may decide to file the dataset with 
restricted/ monitored  access.  
The following points can be included in the School’s operating procedure /policy :  
 Which data are made publicly accessible? W hich data are  not?  
 When will data suitable for this purpose be mad e publicly accessible? Who monitors  this?  
 How are data made publicly accessible? Does the School or Research I nstitute prefer a 
particular data archive? If so, which one?  
 Under which license are data made public?  
 Who handles requests for access to non -public data?  
 What are the criteria for granting/rejecting requests for access to non -public data?  
  
 12 
 More information about publishing research data can be found on the university intranet:  
https://www.tilburguniversity.edu/intranet/research -support -portal/prepare/publishing -and-sharing    
Archiving  
The Research Data Management Regulation require s the storage  of research data. For raw and 
processed research  data, a storage  period of at least ten years applies. Archiving is done in such a 
way that the data can be consulted with a minimum of time and action by the researcher him -/herself 
and by any other researchers (external or otherwise ) who wish to use the data for new res earch.  
In the School’s  operating procedure /policy practical matters can be arranged, such as:  
 What data are archived? What are the criteria for archiving?  
 Where are data archived and by whom?  
 How are the data archived? What are the requirements for the  description of the data 
(metadata)?  
 Who oversees archiving and storage  periods?  
 Who decides whether to extend the storage  period?  
 What criteria are used to determine whether the storage  period is extended?  
 What happens to data for which the storage  period is not extended?  
 What happens to data from researchers leaving the School or R esearch Institute?  
 Are researchers who are no longer attached to the School or the Research I nstitute informed 
about the extension of the storage  period or the destruction  of data they have collected? If 
so, how, when , and by whom?  
  
More information about archiving research data on the university intranet:  
https://www.tilburguniversity.edu/intranet/research -support -portal/prepare/publishing -and-sharing  
More information about the research data archive Tilburg University Dataverse:  
https://www.tilburguniversity.edu/intranet/research -support -portal/publish/archive/dataverse   
The School’s  data management policy may also provide further instructions for PhD candidates  to 
file the data associated with their th esis in a subject -specific, national , or institutional data archive, 
for example:  
 Who ensures that a PhD candidate files  his or her data?  
 When should the dataset be filed?  
 Does the School or Research Institute have a preference for a particular data archive? If so, 
which one?  
 Should the dataset, if possible, also be made publicly accessible? If so, under which license?  
 Who registers where the dataset is filed?  
 Should a copy of the dataset be left with the School or I nstitute? If so, where is it stored and 
who supervises it?  
 Who handles any requests for access to the data?  
4. Support and T raining  
  
The School’s operating procedure /policy may describe which support, education , and 
training will be arranged for wh om, and by whom. For example:  13 
  (additional) training of researchers  
 training and supervision of PhD candidates   
 training and guidance of students  
 training of data steward(s)  
 practical support  
5. Rules and Agreements with Third P arties  
  
It is also important that research data are handled carefully in accordance with the Research Data 
Management Regulation when co llaborating with or conducting  research  on behalf of a third party. 
However, third parties are not necessarily bound by the Research  Data M anagement Regulations. 
Third parties may be bound by internal regulations of their own institution or organization. It is , 
therefore , important that the subject of data management is part of the agreements made prior to the 
research  and that these agreemen ts are added to the collaboration  agreement or commission 
agreement.  
Students are also considered as third parties in this respect. If a student participates in a research 
under the responsibility of a Tilburg University researcher, the researcher will ha ve to ensure that the 
student signs a statement in which he/she declares that he/she is familiar with the Research Data 
Management Regulations and will act in accordance with them. A standard model for such a 
statement  is available .  
In the event that the research data contain personal data, it may be necessary to conclude a so -
called processor  agreement. In many cases, t he use of software and/or tools for the storage and/or 
collection of research data must also be based on a processor  agreement with the ow ner of the 
software and/or tools. This also applies if a third party collects and/or stores the data on behalf of the 
researcher.  
Also see : "Rules and agreements in case research  data contain personal data and third parties" 
(page 15 ).  
6. Rules and A greemen ts with  Respect to Personal D ata 
  
If personal data is used for research purposes, a researcher encounters the General Data Protection 
Regulation 2016/679 (GDPR) , which impose s additional rules and obligations.  
The " VSNU Code of Conduct for the Use of Per sonal Data in Scientific Research" (hereinafter 
referred to as the "Code of Conduct for the Use of Perso nal Data ") is a translation of the GDPR  for 
societal and behavioral  science  research. This Code of Conduct for the Use of Personal D ata gives 
the resear cher a practical assessment framework on how to handle personal data with care. In the 
Code of Conduct , personal data  is defined as any data relating to an identified or identifiable natural 
person, i.e. any data that , without disproportionate time or effo rt, can lead to the identification of a 
natural person. Personal data are either directly identifying (personal) data or not directly identifying 
(personal) data.  14 
 It is not the intention to discuss the Code of Conduct in its entirety here. Only the starti ng points for 
the standard cases are mentioned here:  
http://www.vsnu.nl/files/documenten/Domeinen/Accountability/Codes/Gedragscode%20pe rson 
sdata.pdf  (Dutch only)  
(NB the sections  and page numbers mentioned here refer to the text of the Code of Conduct for the 
Use of Personal Data )  
 Only use lawfully collected data obtained with the consent  of the respondent for a research . 
Except ions are possible (see Section 3.3 onwards  on page 12 of the Code of Conduct for 
the Use of Perso nal Data ).  
 Collect data  sparingly: no more personal data may be collected than is necessary for the 
research ; anonymous data should  be used if possible; personal data will only be p rocessed if 
there is no other option (see Section  3.2 on page s 11–12 and page 25 onwards  of the Code 
of Conduct for the Use of  Personal Data).  
 When processing directly identifying data, two files should be created (communication data 
and research data). Linking  takes place via an empty administration number and the access 
rules for the files must differ (see Section 3.6,  page 13 and page 27 of the Code of Conduct 
for the Use of Personal Data).  
 Personal data must be protected during processing and storage so that unauthorized 
persons (those not involved in the research ) cannot have access to them  (see Chapter  4, 
page 15 , page 29 , and page 30 of the Code of Conduct for the Use of  Personal Data).  
 Publication may only be made if this cannot be traced back to persons.  
  
Transparency: report to the Data Protection Officer and schedule   
If the research consists of processing data that can be directly or indirectly traced back to a natural 
person, the researcher must fill in the "Integrated form for Ethics (if ap plicable), Data Management 
and the Data Processing Register ”. The form helps to map out the processing operations that will 
take place for the purpose of the research. The completed schedule  should then be sent to the 
appropriate email address of the School .  
On the basis of the completed inventory schedule , the Data Protection Officer , if necessary in 
consultation with Legal Affairs , can advise on compliance with the legal conditions for the protection 
of personal data and the Code of Conduct. It can also be tested  whether further assessment of the 
security measures by the Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT) of LIS is desirable.  
It is important to comply with the GDPR  in order to protect the privacy interests of those involved. 
Another reason has been added since 2016: the Authority for Personal Data may impose a fine for 
breaches of the GDPR  (with a maximum of € 820,000).  
Stora ge of personal data  
Verifiability  is an aspect of ethical  research. On this basis, it is justifiable  to store  the personal data 
file for a minimum of ten years if this is necessary for verifiability  (as stated in article 5 of the 
Research Data Management Regulation) . However, a distinction must be made between direct and 
indirect identifying data.  
Main rules from the Code of Conduct on personal data (see Section 3.10, page 14 and the 
explanation on page 29)  15 
 1. Communication file: all communication data (exc ept sex, place of residence , and year of 
birth, Section  3.8, page 14) should be deleted as soon as it is no longer necessary for the 
purpose of the research  to have them and data are no longer necessary for contacting the 
person concerned. If the communica tion data are kept longer than six months after being 
obtained from data subjects, the processing of personal data must be reported to the Data 
Protection Officer . This notification can be made immediately upon the first notification by 
stating in the “Application Form Research Ethics, Data Management, Data Processing 
Register ” that the communication data will be stored for longer than six months.  
2. Files containing directly or indirectly identifying personal data,  in which no distinction is made 
between c ommunication and research files,  may be kept for as long as it is reasonably 
foreseeable that it will be necessary for the research. Files containing anonymous data may 
be kept as long as it is certain  (by means  of new analysis techniques) that these data do not 
allow individuals  to be traced.  
Data leaks: report  
On January 1, 2016, the Data Breaches (Reporting Obligation) Act came into force. This duty to 
report means that organizations that process personal data must immediately report to the Authority 
for Personal Data  as soon as there is a data leak. See also the Data Leaks Protocol  (Dutch only) : 
https:// www.tilburguniversity.edu/sites/default/files/download/Procedure%20melding%20en%20afha
ndeling%20datalekken%20definitief_3.pdf   
Rules and agreements in the event that research data personal data are shared with third 
parties  
If you share research data that includes  personal data , for which Ti lburg University  is responsible , 
with a third party (e.g. , a hospital , a researcher who is not employed by Ti lburg University , or the 
data is stored by  a third party), further conditions apply. When you engage a third p arty to process 
data for your research (for example in the case of the storage of research data with personal data by 
a third party), the third party is often seen as a so -called processor. In such situations, it is a legal 
obligation to conclude a process or agreement between Ti lburg University , as the party responsible 
for the data processing , and the processor. In this agreement, the parties lay down, for example, the 
purposes for which the data may be processed by the processor and the security measures to be 
taken by the processor. The processor  agreement, like collaboration  or research agreements, must 
be signed by the School  Board. Legal Affairs  has a model is available.  
In other situations in which  research data with personal data are shared with thi rd parties, this is only 
allowed  on the condition that further processing of the personal data by this third party is not 
incompatible with the purpose for which the data were originally collected by you.   
If students are involved in the research who will  also process personal data, the student s will have to 
sign a confidentiality agreement. Care must also be taken to ensure that the personal data 
processed by the student s are protected against loss or unlawful processing.  
 
More information about scientif ic research and the GDPR on the university intranet: 
https://www.tilburguniversity.edu/intranet/legal -affairs/privacy/research    16 
 7. Research Data Office  
The Executive Board has appointed LIS for carrying out  its responsibilities set out in the Research 
Data Management Regulation. In order to support the implementation of the Research Data 
Management Regulations, LIS has set up a Research Data Office (RDO).  This Research  Data Office 
function s as a central hub in which various divisions of Tilburg University bundle their support 
services regarding  research data. Coordination of the RDO is the responsibility of LIS, which, 
depending on the subject, calls in specialist assis tance from Legal Affairs, IT Services, Academic 
Services , and other parties involved.  
The RDO:  
 provides supervision  and manages external relations regarding research 
data management;  
 manages a supporting website on research data management 
http://www.tilburguniversity.edu/datamanagement ;  
 participates in policy development and audits.  
 
If you have any questions about the Research Data Management Regulations, this guide line and 
research data management (RDM) in general, please contact the authors of this guide line at 
researchdataoffice@tilburguniversity.edu . Intranet: http://www.tilburguniversity.edu/rdo/  
Data representatives  
For questions concerning personal data in research, the GDPR and the Data Processing R egister 
please contact the data representative of your school . 
Please note. The university intranet is currently being revised, which means that links may change. 
In that case, use http://www.tilburguniversity.edu/datamanagement  and navigate to the right subject.  
  
Tilburg, May 20, 2020  
Version 4.0  
  
  