 
 
 
1/5 
  
 
Privacy policy for students  
 
Your privacy as a student at Zuyd is important, including to us. We are very careful 
when treating your personal data that we collect when you enrol as a student in 
one of our study programmes.  
This privacy policy sets out how we collect and deal with your personal data.  
 
We process and secure your personal data as carefully as possible, in accordance 
with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and other applicable laws and 
regulations.  
 
Who is responsible for processing your personal data?  
Zuyd University of Applied Sciences Foundation  
P.O. Box 550  
6400 AN Heerlen  
 
Commercial Register No. 14 06 09 95  
 
Zuyd University of Applied Sciences has appointed a Data Protection Officer. If you  
have a questions concerning privacy legislation or exercising your rights, please 
contact this officer at the above address or by e -mail 
functionarisgegevensbescherming@zuyd.nl .  
 
For which pu rposes do we process your personal data?  
We collect and process the personal data of students for various purposes:  
Before you study:  
- To respond to enquiries about open days, experience days, newsletters, or 
other recruitment activities  
- To send study pr ogramme brochure(s)  
- To carry out a statistical analysis of the orientation/study choice process  
While you are studying (during education):  
- To process your first and annual enrolment for a funded or non -funded study 
programme (via Studielink) or another ed ucational product, including 
verifying your identity and checkin g your existing qualifications to obtain the 
documents necessary for international students to obtain a visa  
- To perform matching and selection, e.g. study programme choice check or 
selection i f the number of students is capped  
- To organize and deliver the education for which you have enrolled, which 
includes using personal data for scheduling, assessment, testing, 
examination, registering grades, monitoring student progress, giving study 
advice, student guidance, communication an d information, evaluation, extra -
curricular activities, and issuing a degree certificate or other certificate  
- To ensure that your rights and obligations as a student are exercised (see 
the Student Charter of Zuyd University of Applied Sciences  for an overview of 
the primary regulations)  
- To record interviews with student psychologists, student counsellors, and 
study p rogramme choice advisors for student guidance (if applicable)  
- To support and process applications for special provisions to the extent 
necessary   
 
 
2/5 
  
 
- To draw up and implement an internship agreement  
- To process your deregistration in a funded or non -funded study programme 
(via Studielink) or another educational product  
- To ensure the quality of education and research, if you provide your name, 
student number, and Zuyd student e -mail address to Studiekeuze123 
(National Student Survey)  
- To facilitate the accredi tation and certification processes  
Communication  
- To provide information about relevant matters concerning studying and 
student facilities, as well as the content of the education  
Finance  
- To calculate, determine, and collect tuition fees and contributions or fees for 
educational and extra -curricular activities, including assigning claims to third 
parties  
Facilities and security  
- To provide access to or make available digital learning resources, IT facilities, 
and communication channels including an e -mail ac count, storage space, ID 
card, account with Osiris Student, Zuydnet, Moodle, library, and the 
associated user preferences and settings  
- To monitor and ensure the security of communications with computer and 
network systems  
- To ensure the security of access t o buildings and sites and the security of 
goods located in buildings or on sites  
- To implement the parking policy  
Management information and research  
- To aggregate and anonymize personal data for policy or other studies, 
statistics, and management information  
- To provide Zuyd e -mail addresses to research agencies for quality research  
Complaints or disputes  
- To handle any complaints or reports to officials including the Confidential 
Advisor, the Ombudsman, the Examinations Appeals Board, the Dispute 
Advice Committee, or the Data Protection Officer  
- To handle any other disputes (e.g. objections and appeals)  
Other  
- To allow an audit to be performed by an external auditor or a competent 
government agency  
- To organize elections in relation to participation  
- To implement or enforce a law, such as the Higher Education and Scientific 
Research Act (WHW) and the Student Finance Act (WSF2000)  
After your studies  
- To implement the alumni policy of the study programme or other educational 
product  
- To carry out alumni res earch.  
 
If we use your personal data for purposes other than those stated in this privacy 
policy, or in the specific information accompanying a procedure or form, we will 
inform you in advance and, if applicable, request your consent. And if there are any  
changes to how we use your personal data, we will inform you about this.  
   
 
 
3/5 
  
 
Which personal data do we gather?  
We do not collect any more personal data than is necessary for the purpose for 
which they are used. Below you will find an overview of the personal data that we 
may collect from you as a student for the purposes mentioned above.  
- Name and address details: surname, first names, initials, titles, gender, street 
name and number, postcode, town/city  
- Age data: age and date of birth  
- Contact details: telephone number(s) and personal e -mail address  
- Identification data: citizen service number, identity document numb er, passport 
photograph, and any residence permits  
- Nationality  
- Education: Previous education, approval decisions, exemptions  
- Details on study progress (including changes): results, credits, courses enrolled 
on, student guidance, and placement details and p rogress  
- Information about presence/absence  
- Health details upon application for special provisions, e.g. due to disability, 
chronic illness, top -level sport, refugee status, or other special circumstances  
- Health details if receiving study advice  
- Financial details: Bank account number, other information relevant to collecting 
or paying tuition fees and contributions or fees  
- Account information: Student number, Zuyd e -mail address, username and 
encrypted password  
- User data/location data: Log -in details, IP ad dress(es), device ID and operating 
systems of mobile device(s), building access data, and use of ID card  
- Communication information: Content of e -mails or letters we send to you and 
vice versa  
- Images  
- Complaints/disputes/reports: Objections or appeals and na ture of complaint or 
notification  
- Other data that must be processed on the basis of or in the application of a law  
- Other information you provide to Zuyd yourself.  
 
On which grounds do we gather personal data?  
We may only process your personal data if we h ave grounds for this (marked in 
bold).  
We are a public -law institution that performs tasks carried out in the public 
interest , namely issuing a degree certificate to students who have successfully 
completed a study programme. It must be evident that educa tion has been 
delivered in order to issue a degree certificate.  
We are also subject to the Higher Education and Scientific Research Act (WHW). 
This means that your enrolment at Zuyd is conducted in accordance with statutory 
procedures, which provides us w ith a lawful basis  to process your personal data.  
We also sometimes process your personal data for the legitimate interests  of 
Zuyd. In these situations, it is necessary to process your personal data for our 
business processes (e.g. quality assurance, network security, and communications).  
Finally, we may also ask you for your consent  for purposes that are not covered 
by the lawful bases mentioned above and are not necessary for teaching (e.g. 
sending study programme brochures and creating or sharing images).  
 
  
 
 
4/5 
  
 
Who receives your personal data?  
Within Zuyd, your personal data are processed only by employees of Zuyd assigned 
to achieve one or more of the above purposes. In general, these are your lecturers, 
the team manager/coordinator, and the Enrolment Office, International Office, or 
Educational Affairs Office of your study programme. Sometimes it is necessary to 
send your pe rsonal data to an employee or employees of Zuyd who is/are 
necessarily involved in one of the above purposes.  
 
For a number of processes, we use third -party service providers, both within and 
outside the European Union. For this purpose, it is sometimes n ecessary for us to 
provide your personal data to these service providers (processors). We only provide 
personal data that are necessary for that purpose, and we conclude agreements on 
how the data is secured, stored, and used. For example, we conclude proc essor 
agreements with our service providers and ensure that service providers outside 
the EU guarantee an appropriate level of security through the application of the EU -
US Privacy Shield or the binding business regulations that are approved by the 
Dutch D ata Protection Authority (DPA).  
 
We may also provide your personal data to third parties that have official authority 
vested in them, sometimes with and sometimes without your consent. The 
provision of your personal data to these parties is often based on a legal obligation 
or a legitimat e interest, e.g. your enrolment data to DUO and/or IND (in the case of 
international students), a representative selection of examinations to the NVAO 
(Dutch -Flemish accreditation organization), contact details and (depending on study 
programme) date of bi rth and place of residence to a placement organization , and 
partner institutions if you are studying at an external location.  
 
We will never sell your personal data.  
 
For how long do we retain your data?  
We retain your personal data for as long as is ne cessary for the purpose for which 
we collected them. The selection list  for universities of applied sciences provid es 
guidance on this. This selection list has been drawn up specifically by and for 
universities of applied science, and is based on the Public Records Act ( Archiefwet ) 
1995 and the exemption decision on the Personal Data Protection Act ( Wet 
bescherming per soonsgegevens ). This selection list can be downloaded free of 
charge from the website of the Netherlands Association of Universities of Applied 
Sciences or from Zuydnet.  
 
Some key retention periods that we abide by are:  
- IT facilities (three months after d eregistration)  
- Personal data provided upon first enrolment (two years after deregistration)  
- Exam papers (two months or two years if part of the representative selection for 
accreditation)  
- Graduation project (seven years)  
- Financial administration (seven ye ars)  
- Degree certificate and statement (50 years)  
- Student psychologist file (ten to fifteen years in accordance with Dutch 
Association of Psychologists professional code)  
- Student counsellor file (ten years).   
 
 
5/5 
  
 
Security of your data  
We make every effort to protect your personal data as effectively as possible 
against unauthorized access, loss, or theft. The systems in which your data are 
stored are protected by a password or two -factor authentication. If we have your 
personal data pro cessed by a party other than Zuyd, we conclude agreements on 
how your data is secured, stored, and used.  
 
How does Zuyd acquire your personal data?  
We receive most of your personal data that we process directly or indirectly from 
you (primarily via Studie link). It is also possible that an external party may supply 
personal data of yours.  
 
What are your rights?  
As a student, you have the right of access, right to rectification, right to erasure, 
right to restriction, right to portability, and right to object. You may formally 
exercise these rights by sending an e -mail to privacy@zuyd.nl  or by sending a 
letter to Zuyd University of Applied Sciences,  Nieuw Eyckholt 300, 6419 DJ Heerlen, 
Netherlands. If you submit a request, please indicate what you would like us to do 
or what data you want to have erased. This will help us to u se our resources more 
efficiently and quickly. We will reply to you within one month after receiving your 
request and verifying your identity. In exceptional cases, we may extend this period 
by up to a maximum of three months.  
You are also entitled to fil e a complaint with the Dutch Data Protection Authority. If 
you have a complaint, please inform your lecturer first or e -mail privacy@zuyd.nl . 
You may be able to reach a solution together.  
There is no automated decisi on-making concerning your personal data.  
 
Questions  
You can find this information on Zuydnet  or at www.zuyd.nl . 
If you have any questions concerning privacy legislation or exercising your rights, 
you can also contact the Data Protection Officer at the above address or by e -mail 
at the address above.  
 
Amendments  
We may amend this privacy policy at an y time, for example if there are changes to 
legislation. It is therefore advisable to consult this policy regularly.  
 
Date last amended: 14 May 2020  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 