Privacy
This page contains information about the way in which HU University of Applied Sciences Utrecht (HU) ensures the quality of the information on its online platforms. Here, you will also find an explanation of our Privacy Policy and a link to the Cookie Notice in which we explain our use of cookies.
The information on these pages relates to the following websites:

www.internationalhu.com
www.library.hu.nl
www.research.hu.nl
The Corporate Newsletter of HU University of Applied Sciences Utrecht
Qualitative information management  
The information on our web sites is created under the responsibility of HU University of Applied Sciences Utrecht (HU).

The HU devotes the utmost care to providing information that is topical, accessible, correct and complete. Nevertheless, there may be imperfections and inconsistencies in the information, and information is subject to change during a certain period of time. The HU cannot be held liable for the consequences of the use, in whichever way, of the information provided on the websites.

The HU reserves the right to (have others) change or terminate the webpages at any time as it sees fit, with or without prior notice. The HU is not liable for the consequences of change or termination. However, rights can of course be attached to the official regulations of the HU that apply within the specified period and that have been published via the websites.

It is possible that the websites offer access to websites and information sources of third parties. The HU cannot be held liable either for the consequences of the use of information of these webpages or websites.

Privacy policy  
Personal data are carefully processed and protected. We store and use only those personal data that have been directly provided by you or those where it is obvious that they are provided to us by you when they are submitted. In this context we apply the HU University of Applied Sciences Utrecht Privacy Notice as a framework and we comply with the requirements laid down in the GDPR.

Privacy Notice 
Rights of Data Subjects  
The European privacy legislation gives all people whose personal data are processed a set of specific rights.

You have the right to access to the personal data collected from you by the HU.
You have the right to rectify the personal data collected from you by the HU if they are incorrect or incomplete.
You have the right to have the personal data collected from you by the HU erased, but only in the following cases:
the data are no longer necessary for the purpose for which they were collected;
you withdraw your consent and this consent is the only basis on which the data were collected;
the personal data have been collected unlawfully.
You have the right to limit (stop) the processing of your personal data by the HU. The data may then only be processed in the following cases:
with your consent;
to initiate, pursue or substantiate a legal claim;
to protect the rights of others.
Retrieving, modifying or deleting  
HU University of Applied Sciences Utrecht uses a number of applications in which you can retrieve and modify your personal data yourself:

OSIRIS for students
(OSIRIS retrieves your data from Studielink. If you modify data in your Studielink profile, changes will automatically be reflected in OSIRIS.)
Corporate Newsletter
You can manage your profile for the Corporate Newsletter via the link at the bottom of the newsletter. If you no longer wish to receive the newsletter from the HU, please unsubscribe using the relevant link at the bottom of the newsletter.
If you want to retrieve or change data for other applications or websites, please send an email to the Privacy Desk via askprivacy@hu.nl.

Staff members and students with a HU account
Staff members and students can use the Submit Privacy Request form in the self-service portal. Please indicate the application or website concerned. This way, we can assist you quickly.

You don’t have a HU account?
If you do not have a HU account, we will ask you to show proof of ID. Then we will know that you are actually the person whose personal data are retrieved. For this purpose, upload a copy or scan of a valid proof of ID in the form where you have masked your passport picture and the citizen service number BSN. We will immediately destroy this scan/copy after verification of your identity.

 
Self-service portal 
(Technical) security  
We have taken appropriate measures to protect our systems. All persons who are allowed to access your personal data on behalf of HU University of Applied Sciences Utrecht are bound by an obligation of confidentiality. The quality of the technical security is tested frequently.

Reusing website content  
The website is copyrighted by the HU. The website contents must not be duplicated, modified and/or published without the HU’s prior consent. For more information please contact the Content Management Team via content@hu.nl.

Data Protection Officer  
HU University of Applied Sciences Utrecht has appointed an internal supervisor for the Processing of Personal Data. This supervisor is referred to as the Data Protection Officer (hereafter to be referred to as: "DPO"). HU University of Applied Sciences Utrecht will promptly involve the DPO in all matters relating to Personal Data. The statutory duties and powers of the DPO give this officer an independent position at HU University of Applied Sciences Utrecht. HU University of Applied Sciences Utrecht will register the DPO with the supervisory body.

The duties of the DPO are:

to inform and advise all parties involved about their obligations under the GDPR;
to monitor compliance with the GDPR and other relevant privacy legislation;
to monitor compliance with this privacy policy by HU University of Applied Sciences Utrecht;
to organise a Privacy Impact Assessment;
to collaborate with the supervisory body;
to act as the first point of contact for the supervisory body.
Market surveys
Objective  
The HU frequently reviews the various activities and events that are organised. The personal data provided can be used by the HU to carry out research into the satisfaction and experience of participants. The HU aims to improve its activities and events continuously based on the findings of these surveys. An external agency may be deployed for this research by the HU. This agency is always bound by a processor agreement with the HU, which guarantees the safe transfer of data. We sometimes use personal data or transfer these to others to carry out research or to use them for statistical purposes. The data will then be aggregated and they can no longer be traced to individuals. An example of these data would be the number of visitors per event.

Basis  
We process these data on the basis of a legitimate interest: the HU wishes to gain insight into the appreciation for its services with a view to improving these where necessary.

Retention period  
Your personal data are kept for up to 5 years. After that period, the data will be anonymised and will only be used for analytical purposes. The personal data provided are stored in systems that meet stringent HU security requirements. This means that your data are stored securely.

Final remarks
This text may be edited at all times. Changes in this text will be announced via the website. The changes come into force the moment they have been published on this website.

This page was last updated on 29 June 2021.