Privacy Statement
For the proper execution of operational processes, it is necessary to process personal data. The Marnix Academie observes the requirements set by the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) out of respect for the privacy of visitors, students and course participants, employees and other relations. The Executive Board is responsible for the data processing of the Stichting Protestants Christelijk Hoger Beroepsonderwijs Utrecht (the Marnix Academie). The Executive Board has appointed a Data Protection Officer, who is tasked with the internal supervision of compliance with privacy law, and also provides advice.

The Marnix Academie ensures the proper protection of all personal data by implementing appropriate organisational measures and modern technical IT tools. The Marnix Acadmie’s “IT and Internet Usage Rules” Regulation (Regeling ‘Gebruiksregels ICT en internet’) sets out for the benefit of employees and students how data may be approached at an individual level.

Purposes and legal basis
What kinds of personal data are processed relates to the nature of the data subjects’ relationship with the Marnix Academie. Data are only collected for the purpose for which they are provided.

With regard to incidental visitors, online or otherwise, personal data are collected, among others, by telephone,  through request forms (online or otherwise) and registration forms (online or otherwise). This information is used for marketing purposes or for registrations. The data may also be used for related activities, such as evaluations or invoicing. 

Personal data of students, employees and course participants are collected in connection with enrolment for one of our programmes or courses, or because of an employment contract. The Marnix Academie only collects information that is necessary in order to properly carry out the relevant agreement, or in order to satisfy a legal requirement.

The Marnix Academie also uses personal data of (former) students and alumni for the following purposes, which (also) serve the interests of the (former) student, do not infringe personal privacy, and are important to the Marnix Academie with a view to permanent self-improvement.

a. During the study: personal data are made available to Studiekeuze123, the organisation commissioned by the Ministry of Education, Culture and Science to conduct the annual nation-wide students’ survey (Nationale Studenten Enquête, NSE). The results of this survey help the Marnix Academie to further improve its education programmes. You are not obliged to participate in this survey.  The survey results are anonymised and cannot be traced back to a specific individual. If you do not want your data to be provided to this organisation, please let us know through the students’ administration (studentenadm@hsmarnix.nl). For more information visit www.studiekeuze123.nl.

b. After the study, the alumni’s personal email address is made available to the Researchcentrum voor Onderwijs en Arbeidsmarkt (ROA) of Maastricht University and DESAN Research Solutions. These parties conduct the annual survey commissioned by the Netherlands Association of Universities of Applied Sciences (hence by all universities of applied sciences, collectively), known as the HBO-Monitor. Among the goals of this survey is to collect information about the employment opportunities and career perspectives open to alumni. This information also helps the Marnix Academie to improve its education programmes. You are not obliged to participate in this research. The results are anonymised and cannot be traced back to a specific individual. If you do not want to be contacted to participate, please let us know at around the time of your graduation, through the students’ administration studentenadm@hsmarnix.nl).  For more information about this survey, see www.hbomonitor.nl. 

c. After the study, the Marnix Academie uses alumni’s private email address for occasional notifications regarding interesting developments, education programmes and get-togethers. Each email offers the option of unsubscribing from any further such emails, after which your email address and other personal data will be deleted and you will no longer be contacted. 

Access to personal data
With regard to access to data, the Marnix Academie applies the “need to know” principle. This means that data are only accessible by employees carrying out a specific task.

Provision to third parties
The Marnix Academie does not make data available to third parties, unless this is necessary for the execution of an agreement or in order to comply with a legal obligation. Data are not sold, lent, rented out or otherwise made public. If the Marnix Academie makes use of external service providers in the execution of its tasks, it requires these external service providers or processors to comply with the legal framework relating to the protection of personal data to the same extent as the Marnix Academie does.

Organisations with which personal data may be exchanged are, among others (depending on the nature of the agreement):

Education Executive Agency (Dienst Uitvoering Onderwijs)
Ministry of Education, Culture and Science
Inspectorate of Higher Education (Inspectie voor het Hoger Onderwijs)
Government agencies
Municipalities
Studiekeuze 123 for the purposes of the National Student Survey (Nationale Studenten Enquête, NSE)
Researchcenter for Education and Labour Market of Maastricht University and DESAN Research Solutions, for the Higher Education Monitor 
Tax and Customs Administration
Schools where the practical learning takes place
Occupational health and safety service
Partner organisations, national and international (on account of studies and internships abroad)
Immigration and Naturalisation Service (for students requiring residence permits).
The Marnix Academie only provides personal data to third parties in countries outside the European Union if the receiver or the receiving country can guarantee an appropriate level of protection in accordance with European guidelines. This may occur, for example, in relation to internships abroad.
If such a level of protection cannot be provided and the exchange of data is nevertheless necessary, a solution is sought in consultation.

Retention periods
Personal data are never retained for longer than is necessary for the purpose for which they were collected, unless they are subject to a longer legal obligation of retention or express permission has been given for longer-term processing. Upon expiry of the retention period, the Marnix Academie destroys or anonymises the personal data. If the personal data are intended for historic, statistic or scientific purposes, these will be archived upon expiry of the retention period. Data stored for a longer duration with permission will be removed upon request.

Data of incidental visitors, online or otherwise, and course participants are removed no more than two years after the lapse of their purpose. To arrange an earlier removal of the data, please send an email: communicatie@hsmarnix.nl.

For students and employees, the Marnix Academie applies the Selectielijst Hogescholen (University of Applied Sciences Selection List) as the guiding principle for the retention and destruction periods.

Rights with regard to data
Any person of whom the Marnix Academie has collected data has the right to inspect, correct, remove (if legally permitted), block or transfer these data or to object against the processing thereof. Requests for permission to view, correct etc. the data of persons below 16 years of age must be made by a parent (or legal representative). Questions and complaints about the processing of data or the Privacy Statement can be submitted to the Data Protection Officer. Should this not lead to a satisfactory solution, it is possible to submit a complaint to the Dutch Data Protection Authority.