/one.ltab/three.ltab/five.ltab/two.ltab/two.ltab/five.ltab/three.ltab/one.ltab/five.ltab/zero.ltab
/nine.ltab/zero.ltab/one.ltab/eight.ltab/zero.ltab
/two.ltab/seven.ltab/zero.ltab/four.ltab/five.ltab
/one.ltab/zero.ltab /two.ltab/zero.ltab/three.ltab/zero.ltab
/four.ltab/zero.ltab
/five.ltab/zero.ltab
/six.ltab/zero.ltab
/seven.ltab/zero.ltab
/eight.ltab/zero.ltab/one.ltab/zero.ltab/zero.ltab/one.ltab/one.ltab/zero.ltab/one.ltab/two.ltab/zero.ltab/one.ltab/three.ltab/zero.ltab/one.ltab/four.ltab/zero.ltab/one.ltab/five.ltab/zero.ltab/one.ltab/six.ltab/zero.ltab/one.ltab/seven.ltab/zero.ltab/one.ltab/nine.ltab/zero.ltab /two.ltab/zero.ltab/zero.ltab/two.ltab/one.ltab/zero.ltab/two.ltab/two.ltab/zero.ltab
/two.ltab/three.ltab/zero.ltab
/two.ltab/four.ltab/zero.ltab
/two.ltab/five.ltab/zero.ltab
/two.ltab/six.ltab/zero.ltab/two.ltab/eight.ltab/zero.ltab/two.ltab/nine.ltab/zero.ltab/three.ltab/zero.ltab/zero.ltab/three.ltab/one.ltab/zero.ltab/three.ltab/two.ltab/zero.ltab/three.ltab/three.ltab/zero.ltab/three.ltab/four.ltab/zero.ltab/three.ltab/five.ltab/zero.ltab2018Netherlands 
Code of Conduct 
for Research 
Integrity2018Netherlands 
Code of Conduct 
for Research 
IntegrityThis work is published with a CC-BY 4.0 license. Cite the source accurately: 
Netherlands Code of Conduct for Research Integrity (2018).
This is a translated version of the “Nederlandse Gedragscode 
Wetenschappelijke Integriteit (2018)”. Every effort has been made to 
ensure its conformity with the original Dutch document. In case of 
disputes, the authoritative version is the original Dutch document.
The following link ensures that this Code will remain discoverable via the 
Internet in the long term: https://doi.org/10.17026/dans-2cj-nvwu  
The Dutch version of this code can be found via this link.
4Contents
Abbreviations used in this Code of Conduct  6
Preamble  7
1.  Scope and transitional provisions 10
 1.1  To which activities does this Code apply? 10
 1.2  Which institutions are bound by this Code?  10
 1.3  To whom does this Code apply?  10
 1.4 Relationship with other regulations  11
 1.5  Date of entry into force and transitional provisions 11
2.  Principles  13
 1. Honesty  13
 2. Scrupulousness  13
 3. Transparency  13
 4. Independence  13
 5. Responsibility  13
3.   Standards for good research practices   16
 3.1 Introduction  16
 3.2 Design  16
 3.3 Conduct  17
 3.4 Reporting results  17
 3.5 Assessment and peer review  18
 3.6 Communication  18
 3.7  Standards that are applicable to all phases of research 18
4.   Institutions’ duties of care  20
 4.1 Introduction  20
 4.2 Training and supervision  20
 4.3 Research culture 20
 4.4 Data management  20
 4.5 Publication and dissemination  21
 4.6 Ethical norms and procedures  21
5.  Non-compliance with standards: measures and sanctions  23
 5.1 Introduction   23
 5.2  Research misconduct, questionable research practices and minor shortcomings 23
 5.3 Sanctions and other measures   24
 5.4 Complaints and investigations  25
Appendix  28
  Examples of statutory regulations and codes of conduct that overlap with or 
are related to the standards for responsible research practices
5
Netherlands Code of Conduct for Research Integrity 2018 
|Abbreviations used in this 
Code of Conduct 
•  ALLEA:  All European Academies  
http://www.allea.org/
•  KNAW:  Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences  
https://www.knaw.nl/en  
•  NFU:  Netherlands Federation of University Medical Centres  
http://www.nfu.nl/english  
•  NWO: Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research  
https://www.nwo.nl/en  
•  OECD:  Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development  
http://www.oecd.org/
•  TO2 federation: Associated Applied Research Institutes (Deltares, 
MARIN, NLR, TNO, WR)  
https://www.to2-federatie.nl
•  VSNU: Association of Universities in the Netherlands  
http://www.vsnu.nl/en_GB  
6
| Netherlands Code of Conduct for Research Integrity 2018Preamble
In the words of the European Code of Conduct for 
Research Integrity (revised version, 2017, hereafter 
referred to as ‘the ALLEA Code’), research is ‘the quest 
for knowledge obtained through systematic study 
and thinking, observation and experimentation’. 
Although disciplines may differ in approach and 
method, they share a motivation to increase and to 
spread our understanding of ourselves and the world 
in which we live. In our modern knowledge society, 
scientific and scholarly research has thereby acquired 
an indispensable role. In providing knowledge and 
understanding of all aspects of reality, science and 
scholarship also provide the building blocks for 
political decision-making and the stimulus for societal 
development and economic growth. Increasingly, the 
sciences and the humanities are subject to more, and 
better articulated, demands on the part of politics and 
society. 
If scientific and scholarly research is to perform this 
role properly, research integrity is essential. This holds 
true for all disciplines. Research in the sciences and 
the humanities derives its status from the fact that it 
is a process governed by standards. That normativity 
is partly methodological and partly ethical in nature, 
and can be expressed in terms of a number of guiding 
principles: honesty, scrupulousness, transparency, 
independence and responsibility . Researchers who 
are not guided by these principles risk harming both 
the quality and the trustworthiness of research. This 
can take the form of direct damage, for example to 
the environment or to patients, and can undermine 
public trust in scientific and scholarly research as well 
as mutual trust between individual researchers. It is 
therefore vital that the principles of research integrity 
and the ensuing guidelines for good research practices 
be defined with the greatest possible clarity and be 
acknowledged and applied as widely as possible. That is 
the aim of this Code of Conduct, which plays a threefold 
role.
I  For researchers, trainee researchers and students, 
it provides an educational and normative 
framework (chapters 2 and 3) that they are 
expected to internalize and be guided by in their 
research activities.II  For the executive boards of research institutions 
and for research integrity committees, it provides 
a frame of reference when assessing alleged 
research misconduct (chapters 3 and 5).
III  For institutions, it sets out a number of duties of 
care (chapter 4).
Particularly with regard to the first of these roles, the 
Code provides both (a) methodological standards (as to 
what a good researcher does) and (b) ethical standards 
(as to what a researcher with integrity does). These are 
also important for the assessment of alleged research 
misconduct; after all, the boundary between (a) and 
(b) is not always easy to define. Cases of substantial, 
systematic and deliberate non-compliance with the 
methodological standards, in particular, are also 
objectionable from an ethical perspective. When it 
amounts to gross negligence, a questionable research 
practice or ‘sloppy science’ is more than a matter of 
mere error or carelessness but rather something that 
can undermine the very integrity of research. The 
assessment framework in 5.2 takes this into account.
Since 2004, when the first version of the Netherlands 
Code of Conduct for Academic Practice was published, 
there has been a great deal of attention devoted, 
both in the Netherlands and internationally, to the 
importance of research integrity and to the potential 
contribution of codes of conduct. Recently, this has 
been the occasion for minor changes. However, the 
situation has now evolved to the point where a new text 
is needed, one that has clearer standards and greater 
internal coherence, that accords with international 
developments and that covers applied, fundamental 
and practice-oriented research alike.1 The decision was 
therefore made to conduct a full review. 
Research in the sciences and the humanities will 
continue to develop in the way it is conducted and 
organized, as well as in the way it is embedded in 
society. This, in turn, will lead to evolving views on good 
research practices. From time to time, the standards 
for good research practices and the related duties of 
care must be reviewed and the Code updated. Some 
areas of research practices are subject to change; for 
1.  See the Report submitted by the committee reviewing the Code of Conduct for Academic Practice in 2016 to the Association of Universities in 
the Netherlands (VSNU), the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences (KNAW) and the Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research 
(NWO) and the Netherlands Federation of University Medical Centres (NFU): http://www.vsnu.nl/files/documenten/Domeinen/Onderzoek/
Adviesrapport Commissie Verkenning Herziening Gedragscode Wetenschapsbeoefening 2016.pdf
7
Netherlands Code of Conduct for Research Integrity 2018 
|example, the growing importance of the way data is 
used and managed and the developments in the area of 
open science. It is to be expected that these and other 
advances will require additions and adjustments to the 
Code in future. 
This document is a Code of Conduct for researchers 
and institutions in the Netherlands, but also respects 
the scope of international framework documents2 
such as the Singapore Statement on Research Integrity  
(2010),3 the OECD’s Best Practices for Ensuring Scientific 
Integrity and Preventing Misconduct  (2007)4 and ALLEA’s 
recently revised European Code of Conduct for Research 
Integrity (2017).5 On certain points, the Code presented 
here offers more specifics and details than the ALLEA 
code. 
Chapter 1 of this Code addresses its scope: to what 
activities does it apply and who is bound by it? Then, in 
line with the ALLEA code and comparable documents 
from many other countries, it covers the following areas:
–  Chapter 2 defines five principles of integrity that 
underlie good research practices. 
–  Chapter 3 distils these principles into 61 standards 
for good practices in the respective phases of 
the research process. Good research requires 
adherence to these standards throughout that 
process.  
–  Chapter 4 formulates institutions’ duties of care: 
they must ensure a working environment that 
promotes and guarantees good research practices. 
–  Chapter 5 delineates those cases in which non-
compliance with the standards in chapter 3 may 
constitute research misconduct and a sanction 
can be imposed: only in serious cases. But even 
in less serious ones it may be necessary for the 
institution to take corrective, and possibly also 
preventive, measures.
The parties primarily responsible for good research are 
the researchers themselves, their supervisors and the 
institutions where they work. That said, they also have 
to deal with the way in which scientific and scholarly 
research is organized and financed in the Netherlands, within the context of the European Union. Other parties 
within this system – such as the funders of research 
(including the government), publishers, journal editors 
and societal partners – can either facilitate or hinder 
good research that meets standards of research 
integrity. Although, as a rule, these parties will not 
commit to this Code, and in some cases have their own 
codes or regulations,6 they should nevertheless – at the 
very least – be guided by the principles of this Code. 
2.  An even broader framework is provided by the recently revised UNESCO Recommendation on Science and Scientific Researchers, available at: 
http://portal.unesco.org/en/ev.php-URL_ID=49455&URL_DO=DO_TOPIC&URL_SECTION=201.html
3.  Available at: http://wcrif.org/guidance/singapore-statement .
4.  Available at: https://www.oecd.org/sti/sci-tech/40188303.pdf  
5.  Available at: http://www.allea.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/05/ALLEA-European-Code-of-Conduct-for-Research-Integrity-2017.pdf  
6.  Many journals and publishers have committed to the guidelines of the Committee on Publication Ethics (COPE), available at: https://
publicationethics.org/resources/guidelines . 
8
| Netherlands Code of Conduct for Research Integrity 201811.  Scope and 
transitional 
provisions
9
Netherlands Code of Conduct for Research Integrity 2018 
|1.  Scope and  
transitional provisions
1.1  To which activities does 
this Code apply?
1.  This Code covers scientific and scholarly research 
in the broadest sense, as conducted at institutions 
that adopt it. This encompasses both publicly and 
privately funded research, be that fundamental, 
applied or practice-oriented. 
2.  ‘Research’ refers to all activities connected to 
the practice of research – applying for funding, 
designing and conducting research, engaging in 
assessment and peer review, serving as an expert 
and documenting, reporting and publicizing 
research. 
3.  The principles and standards of this Code also 
apply to popular scientific publications, teaching 
materials and advice provided by researchers, 
insofar as this can reasonably be required. 
4.  There are other forms of integrity besides research 
integrity. The researcher must treat subordinates, 
students and colleagues with respect, for 
example, and must refrain from committing 
fraud with expense statements. Insofar as these 
forms of integrity are not directly related to the 
research practice, they fall outside the scope of 
this Code.7 The boundary is not always clearly 
defined, however, so this Code also includes some 
‘borderline’ cases.8
1.2  Which institutions are 
bound by this Code? 
5.  This Code is binding by virtue of self-regulation, 
and hence binding on those institutions that 
adopt it. 
6.  This Code has been adopted by the Royal 
Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences (KNAW), 
the Netherlands Federation of University Medical Centres (NFU), the Netherlands Organisation 
for Scientific Research (NWO), Associated 
Applied Research Institutes (TO2 federation), the 
Netherlands Association of Universities of Applied 
Sciences and the Association of Universities in the 
Netherlands (VSNU). These organizations ensure 
that the institutes, university medical centres, 
universities of applied sciences and research 
universities they represent or oversee also adopt 
this Code.  
7.  Other institutions, including private enterprises, 
can also adopt this Code. 
8.  Joint research with other institutions (including 
private ones) that have not adopted this or a 
comparable Code should only take place if there 
is sufficient confidence that your own part of the 
research can be conducted in compliance with this 
Code and the joint research results meet generally 
accepted principles of integrity in research.  
1.3  To whom does this Code apply? 
9.  Within the institutions that have adopted this 
Code, chapters 2 and 3 apply first and foremost to: 
 •  individual researchers, including PhD 
students (whether or not they are employed 
as such by their university) and visiting 
researchers, part-time researchers or 
external professionals insofar as they 
participate in research by or at the 
institution or disclose their research in its 
name; 
 •  supervisors, principal investigators, research 
directors and managers insofar as they 
help determine the design and conduct of 
research. 
7.  But they do possibly fall under other integrity codes and/or under statutory regulations. 
8.  For example, and in line with the ALLEA code, standard 61 in chapter 3 and duty of care 5 in chapter 4.
10
| Netherlands Code of Conduct for Research Integrity 201810.  Chapters 2 and 3 also apply to work of other 
parties involved in research, such as support 
staff, students or participating citizens, although 
only the researchers, principal investigators or 
research directors on whose instructions or under 
whose responsibility they work are personally 
accountable for non-compliance with the 
standards in this Code. 
11.  Within an educational setting, this Code is 
meaningful as an object of study and in training 
courses. Scientific and scholarly research by 
students therefore falls within its normative 
framework (chapters 2 and 3). As long as that 
research is conducted only in an educational 
context and does not result in publications other 
than a published thesis, however, non-compliance 
with the standards of this Code cannot result in 
a complaints procedure as described in section 
5.4 or in imposing sanctions as described in 
section 5.3.9
12.  Chapter 4 focuses mainly upon the institutions 
themselves and the officers employed there in 
a managerial or executive capacity. One of the 
duties of those institutions and officers is ensuring 
that researchers comply with the standards in 
chapter 3.
1.4 Relationship with other regulations 
13.  This Code contains general standards for all 
disciplines in the sciences and humanities and for 
the institutions adopting it. These standards may 
be specified or supplemented in writing for each 
discipline or institution, but never weakened. 
14.  In some areas that overlap with or are related to 
research integrity, statutory regulations and codes 
of conduct are in effect that set requirements for 
researchers. See the Appendix for a brief overview 
of these. Failure to comply with such a regulation 
or code of conduct will in some cases mean that 
the researcher has also failed to comply with a 
standard from chapter 3 of this Code. If that is the 
case, it could result not only in a sanction under 
that statutory regulations or code of conduct but 
also in a measure or sanction as referred to in 
section 5.3.
15.  Where application of this Code conflicts with a 
statutory regulation, the latter prevails. 1.5  Date of entry into force and 
transitional provisions
16.  At those institutions adopting it on or before 1 
September 2018, this Code enters into force on 1 
October 2018. 
17.  At institutions adopting it after 1 September 
2018, this Code enters into force at a time to be 
determined by the individual institution.
18.  Chapters 2, 3 and 5 of this Code apply to: 
 a.  research started after this Code has entered 
into force; and, 
 b.  research activities started after this Code 
has entered into force, as part of previously 
initiated research.
19.  The Netherlands Code of Conduct for Academic 
Practice (2014 revision) is revoked, except in 
respect of: 
 a.  research completed before this Code entered 
into force; and,
 b.  research activities initiated before this Code 
entered into force and not yet completed 
when it did so. 
20.  An institution may, in a plan of action established 
prior to this Code taking effect, determine that 
one or more of its duties of care as set out in 
chapter 4 will enter into force at a later date. The 
plan of action shall mention this date, which may 
differ per duty. 
9.  Work by students falls under other regulations, such as the Education and Examination Regulations of their degree programme. 
11
Netherlands Code of Conduct for Research Integrity 2018 
|22.  Principles
12
| Netherlands Code of Conduct for Research Integrity 20182.  Principles 
Principles are the basis of integrity in research. They 
should guide individual researchers as well as other 
parties involved in research, such as the institutions 
where it is conducted, publishers, scientific editors, 
funding bodies and scientific and scholarly societies – 
all of which, given their role and interest in responsible 
research practices, may be expected to foster integrity. 
This Code is based on the following five, widely 
supported principles.10 In each case an explanation, 
with examples, is provided in italics detailing their 
impact on the practice of research. As such, these 
explanations link the principles with the standards 
presented in chapter 3.
1. Honesty 
Honesty means, among other things, reporting 
the research process accurately, taking alternative 
opinions and counterarguments seriously, being open 
about margins of uncertainty, refraining from making 
unfounded claims, refraining from fabricating or 
falsifying data or sources and refraining from presenting 
results more favourably or unfavourably than they 
actually are. 
2. Scrupulousness 
Scrupulousness means, among other things, using 
methods that are scientific or scholarly and exercising 
the best possible care in designing, undertaking, 
reporting and disseminating research. 
3. Transparency 
Transparency means, among other things, ensuring that 
it is clear to others what data the research was based 
on, how the data were obtained, what and how results 
were achieved and what role was played by external stakeholders. If parts of the research or data are not 
to be made public, the researcher must provide a good 
account of why this is not possible. It must be evident, 
at least to peers, how the research was conducted and 
what the various phases of the research process were. At 
the very least, this means that the line of reasoning must 
be clear and that the steps in the research process must 
be verifiable. 
4. Independence 
Independence means, among other things, not allowing 
the choice of method, the assessment of data, the 
weight attributed to alternative statements or the 
assessment of others’ research or research proposals 
to be guided by non-scientific or non-scholarly 
considerations (e.g., those of a commercial or political 
nature). In this sense, independence also includes 
impartiality. Independence is required at all times in the 
design, conduct and reporting of research, although not 
necessarily in the choice of research topic and research 
question. 
5. Responsibility 
Responsibility means, among other things, 
acknowledging the fact that a researcher does not 
operate in isolation and hence taking into consideration 
– within reasonable limits – the legitimate interests 
of human and animal test subjects, as well as those 
of commissioning parties, funding bodies and the 
environment. Responsibility also means conducting 
research that is scientifically and/or societally relevant. 
Principles can be regarded as ‘virtues’ of a good 
researcher, guiding them towards the right choices in 
all kinds of circumstances. The most important of these 
are specified in chapter 3, in the form of standards. By 
their very nature, however, principles are less subject 
to change than the standards they give rise to, which 2.  Principles
10.  For a justification of the choice for these particular five principles, in part against the background of common international practice, see 
the report submitted by the committee reviewing the Code of Conduct for Academic Practice in 2016 to the Association of Universities in 
the Netherlands (VSNU), the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences (KNAW) the Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research 
(NWO) and the Netherlands Federation of University Medical Centres (NFU): http://www.vsnu.nl/files/documenten/Domeinen/Onderzoek/
Adviesrapport Commissie Verkenning Herziening Gedragscode Wetenschapsbeoefening 2016.pdf
13
Netherlands Code of Conduct for Research Integrity 2018 
|sometimes need to be adapted or extended as research 
practices change. All such revisions must remain true to 
the principles underlying them.
Principles are also guiding factors in cases not covered 
by the standards described in chapter 3. In such cases, 
even if an action is in conflict with a principle, as long as 
it violates none of the standards itemized in chapter 3 
nor any additional standard established by a discipline 
or institution, then sanctions as mentioned in chapter 5 
will not be imposed. 
Principles may sometimes clash. On occasion, for 
example, responsibility towards a commissioning party 
or the need to safeguard public security restricts the 
extent to which a researcher can be transparent. In such 
cases, it will be necessary to determine which principles 
should be given priority. Where possible and necessary, 
these considerations have already been taken into 
account in drafting the standards listed in chapter 3.
 
14
| Netherlands Code of Conduct for Research Integrity 201833.  Standards 
for good 
research 
practices  
15
Netherlands Code of Conduct for Research Integrity 2018 
|3.   Standards for good 
research practices  
3.1 Introduction 
In this chapter, the principles described above are 
further elaborated into more specific standards for good 
research practices. These set out what researchers must 
take into consideration in their work, individually and as 
a team. They are for the most part presented separately 
for each individual phase of the research process: 
design, conduct, reporting, assessment and peer review 
and communication. The chapter concludes, in 3.7, with 
a number of standards applicable to all phases. In their 
elaboration and application, the differences between 
fundamental, applied and practice-oriented research 
may be relevant.
The standards included in this chapter are general  ones. 
They may be specified or supplemented in writing, 
depending upon the discipline or institution, but not 
weakened. 
3.2 Design 
1.  Consider the interests of science and scholarship 
and/or society when determining the subject and 
structure of your research. 
2.  Conduct research that can be of scientific, 
scholarly and/or societal relevance. 
3.  Do not make unsubstantiated claims about 
potential results. 
4.  Take into account the latest scientific and 
scholarly insights. 
5.  Make sure that your research design can answer 
the research question. 
6.  Ensure that the methods you employ are well 
justified. 
7.  If the research is conducted on commission and/
or funded by third parties, always specify who the 
commissioning party and/or funding body is. 
8.  Be open about the role of external stakeholders 
and possible conflicts of interest.11 9.  In research with external partners, make clear 
written agreements about research integrity and 
related matters such as intellectual property 
rights.
10.  As necessary, describe how the collected research 
data are organized and classified so that they can 
be verified and reused.
11.  As far as possible, make research findings and 
research data public subsequent to completion of 
the research. If this is not possible, establish valid 
reasons12 for their non-disclosure
12. a.  In the event of an investigation into alleged 
research misconduct, make all relevant 
research and data available for verification 
subject to the confidentiality safeguards 
established by the board of the institution. 
 b.  In highly exceptional cases, there may 
be compelling reasons for components 
of the research, including data, not to be 
disclosed to an investigation into alleged 
research misconduct. Such cases must be 
recorded and the consent of the board of the 
institution must be obtained prior to using 
the components and/or data in question 
in the scientific or scholarly research. They 
must also be mentioned in any results 
published.
13.  Ensure that the required permissions are obtained 
and that, where necessary, an ethical review is 
conducted.
14.  Accept only research assignments that can be 
undertaken in accordance with the standards in 
this Code. 
15.  Enter into joint research with a partner not 
affiliated with an institution which has adopted 
this or a comparable Code only if there is sufficient 
confidence that your own part of the research can 
be conducted in compliance with this Code and 
the joint research results meet generally accepted 
principles of integrity in research. 
11.  By, for instance, adopting a Declaration of Scientific Independence as recommended in the KNAW report Wetenschap op bestelling  (“Science to 
Order”, 2005), p. 46. 
12.  Valid reasons, including confidentiality, can be found in: Council of the European Union, Outcome of Proceedings: The transition towards an 
Open Science system, paragraph 14 (Brussels, 27/05/2016, 9526/16, via: data.consilium.europa.eu/doc/document/ST-9526-2016-INIT/en/pdf ).
16
| Netherlands Code of Conduct for Research Integrity 20183.3 Conduct 
16.  Conduct your research accurately and with 
precision.
17.  Employ research methods that are scientific and/
or scholarly. 
18.  Make sure that the choice of research methods, 
data analysis, assessment of results and 
consideration of possible explanations is not 
determined by non-scientific or non-scholarly (e.g. 
commercial or political) interests, arguments or 
preferences. 
19.  Do not fabricate data or research results and do 
not report fabricated material as if it were fact. 
20.  Do justice to all research results obtained. 
21.  Do not remove or change results without explicit 
and proper justification. Do not add fabricated 
data during the data analysis. 
22.  Ensure that sources are verifiable. 
23.  Describe the data collected for and/or used in 
your research honestly, scrupulously and as 
transparently as possible. 
24.  Manage the collected data carefully and store 
both the raw and processed versions for a period 
appropriate for the discipline and methodology at 
issue. 
25.  Contribute, where appropriate, towards making 
data findable, accessible, interoperable and 
reusable in accordance with the FAIR principles.13 
26.  Take into consideration the interests of any 
humans and animals involved, including test 
subjects, as well as any risks to the researchers 
and the environment, while always observing 
the relevant statutory regulations and codes of 
conduct.14 
27.  Keep your own level of expertise up to date. 
28.  Take on only those tasks that fall within your area 
of expertise. 3.4 Reporting results 
29.  Do justice to everyone who contributed to the 
research and to obtaining and/or processing the 
data. 
30.  Ensure a fair allocation and ordering of authorship, 
in line with the standards applicable within the 
discipline(s) concerned. 
31.  All authors must have made a genuine 
intellectual contribution to at least one of the 
following elements: the design of the research, 
the acquisition of data, its analysis or the 
interpretation of findings.
32.  All authors must have approved the final version of 
the research product.
33.  All authors are fully responsible for the content of 
the research product, unless otherwise stated.
34.  Present sources, data and arguments in a 
scrupulous way.
35.  Be transparent about the method and working 
procedure followed and record them where 
relevant in research protocols, logs, lab journals 
or reports. The line of reasoning must be clear 
and the steps in the research process must be 
verifiable. This usually means that the research 
must be described in sufficient detail for it to be 
possible to replicate the data collection and its 
analysis.
36.  Be explicit about any relevant unreported data 
that has been collected in accordance with the 
research design and could support conclusions 
different from those reported. 
37.  Be clear about results and conclusions, as well as 
their scope. 
38.  Be explicit about uncertainties and 
contraindications, and do not draw 
unsubstantiated conclusions. 
39.  Be explicit about serious alternative insights that 
could be relevant to the interpretation of the data 
and the research results. 
40.  When making use of other people’s ideas, 
procedures, results and text, do justice to the 
research involved and cite the source accurately. 
41.  Avoid unnecessary reuse of previously published 
texts of which you were the author or co-author. 
 a.  Be transparent about reuse by citing the 
original publication. 
 b.  Such self-citation is not necessary for reuse 
on a small scale or of introductory passages 
and descriptions of the method applied.15 
13.  See the GoFair website: https://www.go-fair.org/fair-principles/  
14. See the Appendix for an overview of the most relevant statutory regulations in this context.
15.  See KNAW, Correct Citeren  (“Correct citation practice”, 2014): https://www.knaw.nl/en/news/publications/correct-citation-practice .
17
Netherlands Code of Conduct for Research Integrity 2018 
|42.  Always provide references when reusing research 
material that can be used for meta-analysis or the 
analysis of pooled data. 
43.  Avoid unnecessary references and do not make the 
bibliography unnecessarily long. 
44.  Be open and complete about the role of external 
stakeholders, commissioning parties, funding 
bodies, possible conflicts of interest and relevant 
ancillary activities. 
45.  As far as possible, make research findings and 
research data public subsequent to completion of 
the research. If this is not possible, establish the 
valid reasons16  for this.
3.5 Assessment and peer review 
46.  Be honest and scrupulous as an assessor or peer 
reviewer, and explain your assessment.
47.  Do not use information acquired in the context of 
an assessment without explicit consent.
48.  Do not use the system of peer review to generate 
additional citations for no apparent reason, with 
the aim of increasing your own or other people’s 
citation scores (‘citation pushing’).
49.  Refrain from making an assessment if any doubts 
could arise regarding your independence (for 
example, because of possible commercial or 
financial interests). 
50.  Refrain from making an assessment outside your 
area of expertise, or do so only in general terms.
51.  Be generous in cooperating with internal and 
external reviews of your own research. 
52.  Do not establish a journal that does not apply the 
required standards of quality to its publications, 
and do not cooperate with any such journal.
3.6 Communication 
53.  Be honest in public communication and clear 
about the limitations of the research and your own 
expertise. Only communicate to the general public 
about the research results if there is sufficient 
certainty about them. 
54.  Be open and honest about your role in the public 
debate and about the nature and status of your 
participation in it. 
55.  Be open and honest about potential conflicts of 
interest. 3.7  Standards that are applicable 
to all phases of research
56.  As a supervisor, principal investigator, research 
director or manager, provide for an open and 
inclusive culture in all phases of research.
57.  As a supervisor, principal investigator, research 
director or manager, refrain from any action which 
might encourage a researcher to disregard any of 
the standards in this chapter.
58.  Do not delay or hinder the work of other 
researchers in an inappropriate manner.
59.  Call attention to other researchers’ non-
compliance with the standards as well as 
inadequate institutional responses to non-
compliance, if there is sufficient reason for doing 
so.
60.  In addressing research misconduct, make no 
accusation that you know or should have known to 
be incorrect.
61.  Do not make improper use of research funds.
 
16.  Valid reasons, including confidentiality, can be found in: Council of the European Union, Outcome of Proceedings: The transition towards an 
Open Science system, paragraph 14 (Brussels, 27/05/2016, 9526/16, via: data.consilium.europa.eu/doc/document/ST-9526-2016-INIT/en/pdf ).
18
| Netherlands Code of Conduct for Research Integrity 201844.  Institutions’ 
duties of 
care
19
Netherlands Code of Conduct for Research Integrity 2018 
|4.   Institutions’  
duties of care 
4.1 Introduction 
Institutions provide a working environment that 
promotes and safeguards good research practices. They 
ensure that researchers can work in a safe, inclusive 
and open environment where they feel responsible 
and accountable, can share concerns about dilemmas 
and can discuss errors made without fearing the 
consequences (‘blame-free reporting’). 
These obligations on the part of institutions are duties 
of care. Institutions must fulfil these duties so that 
researchers can and, in fact, do observe the standards 
for good research practices. Many of these duties 
of care apply to distinct levels within an institution, 
engendering further obligations for personnel working 
at various levels, particularly supervisors, principal 
investigators, research directors, managers and 
executive board members. 
The regulated right to raise complaints described in 
chapter 5 does not apply to the institutional duties 
of care. Naturally, internal regulatory organs such as 
the Supervisory Board or representative bodies may 
concern themselves with ensuring compliance.
4.2 Training and supervision 
1.  Raise awareness about research integrity within 
the organization and, where necessary, provide or 
facilitate training courses for researchers, support 
staff, research leaders and research managers. 
2.  Embed a focus on research integrity firmly 
in educational activities of higher education 
institutions. 
3.  Provide a working environment in which 
responsible research practices are facilitated. 
4.  Ensure that new researchers and PhD students are 
supervised by suitably qualified persons.
5.  Ensure transparent and fair procedures for 
appointments, promotions and remuneration.4.3 Research culture
6.  Ensure compliance with all relevant statutory 
regulations, codes of conduct, instructions and 
protocols.  
7.  Encourage a research culture in which the 
standards in chapter 3 are embedded and take 
measures if there are signs that they are not being 
complied with or there is a risk that this will occur.
8.  Provide clear instructions, protocols and other 
means to support researchers and to help them 
understand what constitutes good research 
practice within their discipline(s) and institution.
9.  Take appropriate measures to prevent non-
compliance with the standards. For example, 
monitor the quality and intensity of the 
supervision of starting researchers such as 
PhD students as well as the composition of PhD 
committees. 
10.  Provide an open, safe and inclusive research 
culture in which researchers:
 a.  discuss the standards for good research 
practices, 
 b.  hold each other accountable for compliance 
with the standards, and
 c.  are prepared to report any reasonable 
suspicion of non-compliance to the 
committee or officer referred to in 21 below 
or a confidential counsellor as referred to in 
20 below. 
4.4 Data management 
11.  Provide a research infrastructure in which good 
data management is the rule and is facilitated.
12.  Ensure that, as far as possible, data, software 
codes, protocols, research material and 
corresponding metadata can be stored 
permanently. 
13.  Ensure that all data, software codes and research 
materials, published or unpublished, are managed 
and securely stored for the period appropriate to 
the discipline(s) and methodology concerned. 
20
| Netherlands Code of Conduct for Research Integrity 201814.  Ensure that, in accordance with the FAIR 
principles17, data is open and accessible to the 
extent possible and remains confidential to the 
extent necessary. 
15.  Ensure that it is clear how data, software codes 
and research material can be accessed. 
4.5 Publication and dissemination 
16.  Ensure that contracts with commissioning parties 
and funding bodies include fair agreements about 
access to and the publication of data and research 
material. 
17.  Ensure that the public communication of research 
results is performed scrupulously.
4.6 Ethical norms and procedures 
18.  Undertake ethical reviews where necessary; 
for example, by setting up one or more ethical 
committees and providing them with adequate 
support. These committees can provide 
researchers with binding or non-binding advice on 
issues such as the use and treatment of patients, 
human and animal test subjects, the possible 
risks of publishing data, the use of human tissue, 
risks to the environment or cultural heritage and 
potential conflicts of interest. 
19.  On the institution’s website, publish information 
about its policy with regard to the registration and 
disclosure of relevant ancillary activities, positions 
and interests, including the measures in place to 
implement that policy. 
20.  Appoint and support easily accessible confidential 
counsellors for research integrity. 
21.  Appoint a committee or officer to consider 
complaints as referred to in section 5.4
 
17. See the GoFair website: https://www.go-fair.org/fair-principles/ .
21
Netherlands Code of Conduct for Research Integrity 2018 
|55.  Non-compliance 
with standards: 
measures and 
sanctions 
22
| Netherlands Code of Conduct for Research Integrity 20185.  Non-compliance with 
standards: measures  
and sanctions 
5.1 Introduction  
In this chapter, ‘standard’ refers to the standards for 
good research practices listed in chapter 3, including 
the additional standards for a discipline or institution 
referred to in section 3.1. ‘Assessment criteria’ refers to 
the factors described in section 5.2C.
Researchers, supervisors, principal investigators, 
research directors, managers and the executive board 
members of the institution must always strive to 
ensure that the standards are fulfilled scrupulously. 
Non-compliance with them undermines professional 
responsibility, which harms the research process and 
the relationship between individual researchers, and 
possibly also trust in and the credibility of the research. 
Section 5.2 provides guidelines for institutional boards 
and for the committees and officers referred to in 
section 5.4, under 1, in judging the severity of specific 
cases of non-compliance with standards, including the 
assessment criteria to be applied. Section 5.3 deals with 
measures and sanctions to be imposed, if necessary, and 
section 5.4 addresses the submission and consideration 
of complaints about alleged instances of research 
misconduct.
5.2  Research misconduct, 
questionable research practices 
and minor shortcomings
A. Research misconduct 
In serious cases, non-compliance with one or more 
standards constitutes ‘research misconduct’ on the part 
of the researcher involved as well as, where applicable, 
the supervisor, principal investigator, research director 
or manager who incited that non-compliance.1.  The clearest examples of research misconduct are 
fabrication, falsification and plagiarism. 
 •  Fabrication means the invention of data or 
research results and reporting them as if 
they are fact (chapter 3, standard 19). 
 •  Falsification means the manipulation of 
data or research material, equipment or 
processes to change, withhold or remove 
data or research results without justification 
(standard 21). 
 •  Plagiarism means the use of another person’s 
ideas, work methods, results or texts without 
appropriate acknowledgement (standards 
34, 40). In some cases, however, plagiarism is 
of such limited extent and significance that 
its labelling as ‘research misconduct’ would 
be excessive.
2.  In the event that the following standards are not 
met, the determination of whether the case in 
question constitutes ‘research misconduct’ or a 
less serious violation will depend on the outcome 
of an assessment using the criteria as mentioned 
in section 5.2C:
 •  Design: standards 7, 8 and 14. 
 •  Conduct: standards 18, 22 and 23.
 •  Reporting: standards 30, 36, 38, 42, 44 and 45.
 •  Assessment and peer review: standards 47 
and 49.
 •  Communication: standards 53 and 55.
 •  General standards: standards 57, 58 and 60.
3.  Only in exceptional cases is non-compliance with 
any of the other standards to be characterized, in 
the light of the assessment criteria, as ‘research 
misconduct’.5.  Non-compliance 
with standards: 
measures and 
sanctions 
23
Netherlands Code of Conduct for Research Integrity 2018 
|B. Questionable research practices 
and minor shortcomings 
In cases where non-compliance with the standards does 
not constitute ‘research misconduct’, it may instead be 
categorized as ‘questionable research practice’ or, in the 
least serious situations, as a ‘minor shortcoming’. Which 
of these descriptions is appropriate in any specific 
case depends upon the outcome of the assessment 
using the criteria in section 5.2C. In the event of a 
‘minor shortcoming’, in general there will be no reason 
to impose measures or sanctions as referred to in 
section 5.3.
C. Assessment criteria
When the executive board of the institution and the 
committee or officer referred to in section 5.4, under 
1 are considering the case, the following criteria are 
particularly important: 
a.  the extent of the non-compliance; 
b.  the level to which non-compliance was intentional 
and whether it was a form of gross negligence or 
was the result of carelessness or ignorance; 
c.  the possible consequences for the validity of 
the research in question and for the prevailing 
scientific knowledge and scholarship; 
d.  the potential effects on the trust in scientific and 
scholarly research and between researchers; 
e.  the potential impact on individuals, society and 
the environment; 
f.  the potential benefits for the researcher or other 
interested parties; 
g.  whether the matter concerns a scientific or 
scholarly publication, as opposed to a popularizing 
article, teaching materials or an advisory report;
h.  opinions within the discipline(s) concerning the 
severity of the non-compliance; 
i.  the researcher’s position and experience; 
j.  the extent of any prior violations committed by 
the researcher; 
k.  whether the institution itself has failed in its 
duties of care; 
l.  how much time elapsed before action was taken 
against the non-compliance within or outside the 
institution.
 
5.3 Sanctions and other measures  
If the executive board of the institution suspects non-
compliance with one or more standards, it ensures 
that the case is examined honestly and fairly. If such 
non-compliance is indeed established after proper 
investigation, it may be deemed appropriate to impose 
sanctions or other measures. The nature and extent of these will depend, among other things, upon whether 
the non-compliance is found to constitute ‘research 
misconduct’, a ‘questionable research practice’ or a 
‘minor shortcoming’. If the suspicion of non-compliance 
proves unfounded, appropriate remedial measures are 
taken.
Sanctions 
Whenever ‘research misconduct’ is established, the 
board of the institution must consider whether it is 
possible and desirable to impose sanctions. Naturally, 
any sanction must always be appropriate and 
proportionate. In serious cases, the institution has the 
powers to impose penalties within its legal powers, such 
as a formal reprimand, transfer, demotion or dismissal. 
A person’s authorization to supervise degrees may 
also be suspended. Furthermore, the institution may 
deem it necessary to report the matter to the relevant 
regulatory bodies or to authorities empowered to 
impose other administrative, disciplinary or criminal 
sanctions.
Other measures 
Regardless of whether a sanction ought to be imposed, 
it is always important to consider whether other 
appropriate measures are necessary. This is especially 
so in the event of repeated non-compliance or more-
than-occasional breaches of the standards.
Even when there is no reason to impose sanctions, 
failure to comply with the standards cannot remain 
undiscussed. Researchers must always hold each 
other, their subordinates, their supervisors, principal 
investigators, research directors and managers 
accountable, to ensure that quality assurance is 
improved, that recurrence is prevented and that adverse 
effects are remedied or mitigated (e.g. by rectifying 
or retracting publications). The institution’s board 
should take measures itself or ensure that others do so. 
In this respect, it may make a difference whether the 
matter is a case of research misconduct, a questionable 
research practice or a minor shortcoming. It may also 
prove necessary for the institution to take preventive 
individual or general measures to ensure that research 
practices are improved, compliance with all standards 
is maintained and timely detection will take place (see 
also the duties of care described in chapter 4).
24
| Netherlands Code of Conduct for Research Integrity 20185.4 Complaints and investigations 
If research misconduct is suspected, a complaint can be 
submitted to a relevant committee or officer appointed 
by the institution. The institution ensures that a 
scrupulous and fair procedure is in place to deal with 
any such complaint, including any judgement resulting 
from it. This procedure is also followed if the executive 
board of the institution itself considers it necessary to 
investigate possible research misconduct, even without 
receiving a complaint.
The following basic principles apply to the consideration 
and investigation of complaints.
1.  Following a complaint or a request by the 
institution’s board, the matter is investigated by 
the committee or officer appointed to that end. 
2.  In this section, ‘the respondent’ means the person 
whose conduct is under investigation. This may 
also be a person who no longer works at or for the 
institution.
3.  A complaint may only be submitted about a 
suspected case of research misconduct (see 
section 5.2A). 
4.  The complaint or request must adequately 
substantiate why the complainant or petitioner 
believes that research misconduct has been 
committed. 
5.  Complaints related to methodological discussions 
and standard academic debates are inadmissible.
6.  An anonymous complaint of alleged research 
misconduct will be considered only if the executive 
board of the institution sees good reason to do so 
because it believes that:
 a.  compelling public or institutional interests 
are at stake, or interests of the respondent 
so require; and,
 b.  the factual basis for the complaint can 
be investigated without input from the 
complainant.
7.  The investigating committee or officer can refrain 
from initiating or continuing an investigation as 
soon as it becomes clear that the complaint or 
request: 
 a.  concerns a purely professional difference of 
opinion; 
 b.  is attributable solely to a labour dispute; or, 
 c.  cannot result in a judgement that the 
respondent’s actions constitute research 
misconduct. 
8.  The complainant and the respondent may consult 
a confidential counsellor.9.  The investigatory procedure regarding the 
research, as well as any second opinion: 
 •  shall provide for fair treatment, including 
hearing both sides and making all 
relevant information available to both the 
complainant and the respondent; 
 •  shall be confidential;
 •  shall be organized in such a way that neither 
the complainant nor the respondent is 
unnecessarily disadvantaged; 
 •  shall be completed within a reasonable 
period of time; 
 •  shall be conducted by experts with no 
personal interest in the case; or 
 •  shall be set down by the institution in a clear, 
easily accessible regulation.
10.  a.   The procedure described in point 9 shall, if 
relevant to the institution, include provisions 
as to when, and under what conditions, 
the undisclosed components of scientific 
research or data shall be made available 
for verification as part of the investigation. 
Such provisions shall at least state which 
persons or officers are authorised to carry 
out verification checks, how they should be 
carried out and how the findings are to be 
reported. 
 b.  Pursuant to section 3.2, point 12b, the 
procedure may include provisions stating 
that, in highly exceptional cases, there may 
be compelling reasons for components 
of the research, including data, not to be 
disclosed to an investigation into alleged 
research misconduct. Such cases must be 
recorded and the consent of the board of the 
institution must be obtained prior to using 
the components and/or data in question 
in the scientific research. They must also 
be mentioned in any results that are made 
public.
11.  The investigating committee or officer may 
decide, by way of derogation from point 9, first 
bullet, to withhold certain information from the 
complainant and/or the respondent if there are 
compelling reasons to do so.
12.  The respondent is presumed innocent until proven 
otherwise. 
13.  The investigating committee or official judges 
whether research misconduct has taken place. 
14.  After the committee or official has issued its 
judgement, the executive board of the institution 
gives its initial judgement on the matter and 
notifies the complainant and the respondent 
thereof, in writing and without delay.
25
Netherlands Code of Conduct for Research Integrity 2018 
|15.  The complainant and the respondent may request 
a second opinion within six weeks, for instance 
from the Netherlands Board on Research Integrity 
(LOWI).
16.  If a second opinion is not requested within six 
weeks, the executive board of the institution 
settles on its final judgement. If a second opinion 
has been requested, the board takes that into 
consideration in its final judgement.
17.  At the same time as issuing its final judgement, the 
executive board of the institution determines any 
sanctions or measures as referred to in section 5.3.
18.  At least in all cases where research misconduct is 
established, the executive board of the institution 
ensures that the findings of the investigation and 
its final judgement are made public in anonymized 
form. 
19.  The board of the institution ensures that the 
rights of both the complainant and the respondent 
are protected, and that neither is unnecessarily 
disadvantaged in their career prospects or 
otherwise. 
20.  The board of the institution is not obliged to 
arrange legal assistance but may decide to do so. 
 
26
| Netherlands Code of Conduct for Research Integrity 2018Appendix  
  
27
Netherlands Code of Conduct for Research Integrity 2018 
|Appendix
Examples of statutory regulations and codes of conduct that overlap with 
or are related to the standards for responsible research practices
1.  General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)  
(https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX:32016R0679 )
2.  Public Records Act (Archiefwet)  
(http://wetten.overheid.nl/BWBR0007376/2015-07-18 ) 
3.  Genetically Modified Organisms Decree (Besluit genetisch gemodificeerde organismen)  
(http://wetten.overheid.nl/BWBR0035090 ) 
4.  Radiation Protection Decree (Besluit stralingsbescherming)  
(http://wetten.overheid.nl/BWBR0012702 ) 
5.  Code of Ethics for research in the Social and Behavioural Sciences involving human subjects  
(http://www.nethics.nl/Gedragscode-Ethical-Code/ )
6.  Research Databases Act (Onderzoeksgegevensbankenwet)  
(http://wetten.overheid.nl/BWBR0010591/2017-09-01 )
7. Embryos Act (Embryowet)  
 ( http://wetten.overheid.nl/BWBR0013797 ) 
8. Code of Conduct for health research 
 ( https://www.federa.org/codes-conduct ) 
9. Human tissue and Medical Research: Code of Conduct for Responsible Use 
 ( https://www.federa.org/codes-conduct ) 
10. Genetically Modified Organisms Regulations 
 ( http://wetten.overheid.nl/BWBR0035072 ) 
11. Standard for the protection of animals used for scientific purposes 
 ( https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/NL/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32010L0063 ) 
12. Association of Universities in the Netherlands (VSNU) Sectorial regulation regarding ancillary activities 
  ( http://www.vsnu.nl/files/VSNU%202017/Sector%20regeling%20nevenwerkzaamheden%202017.pdf ) 
13.  General Data Protection Regulation (Implementation) Act (Uitvoeringswet  
Algemene verordening gegevensbescherming)
 ( http://wetten.overheid.nl/BWBR0040940/2018-05-25 )
14.  UNESCO Recommendation on Science and Scientific Researchers  
(http://portal.unesco.org/en/ev.php-URL_ID=49455&URL_DO=DO_TOPIC&URL_SECTION=201. html )
15.  Foetal Tissue Act (Wet foetaal weefsel)  
(http://wetten.overheid.nl/BWBR0012983 ) 
28
| Netherlands Code of Conduct for Research Integrity 201816.  House for Whistleblowers Act (Wet Huis voor de klokkenluiders)  
(http://wetten.overheid.nl/BWBR0037852/2016-07-01 ) 
17.  Medical Research (Human Subjects) Act (Wet medisch wetenschappelijk onderzoek met mensen)  
(http://wetten.overheid.nl/BWBR0009408 ) 
18.  Environmental Management Act (Wet milieubeheer)  
(http://wetten.overheid.nl/BWBR0003245 ) 
19. Experiments on Animals Act (Wet op de dierproeven) 
 ( http://wetten.overheid.nl/BWBR0003081 ) 
20. Medical Treatment Contracts Act (Wet op de geneeskundige behandelingsovereenkomst) 
 ( http://wetten.overheid.nl/BWBR0005290/#Boek7_Titeldeel7_Afdeling5 ) 
21. Medical Devices Act (Wet op de medische hulpmiddelen) 
 ( http://wetten.overheid.nl/BWBR0002697 ) 
22. Population Screening Act (Wet op het bevolkingsonderzoek) 
 ( http://wetten.overheid.nl/BWBR0005699 ) 
23.  International, European and national legislation regarding intellectual property, including: 
 a.  Copyright Act (Auteurswet)  
(http://wetten.overheid.nl/BWBR0001886/2017-09-01 ) 
 b.  Patents Act 1995 (Rijksoctrooiwet 1995)  
(http://wetten.overheid.nl/BWBR0007118/2017-03-0 1) 
 c.  Neighbouring Rights Act (Wet op de naburige rechten)  
(http://wetten.overheid.nl/BWBR0005921/2017-09-01 ) 
 d.  Seeds and Plant Materials Act 2005 ( Zaaizaad- en plantgoedwet 2005 )  
(http://wetten.overheid.nl/BWBR0018040/2017-09-01 ) 
24. Legislation and regulations related to public and state security and state secrets, including:
 a.  General Security Requirements for Ministry of Defence Assignments (ABDO 2006 for ongoing assignments, 
ABDO 2017 for new assignments) ( Algemene beveiligingseisen voor defensieopdrachten 2006 en 2017 )
  ( https://www.defensie.nl/downloads/beleidsnota-s/2006/08/13/abdo-2006 )
  ( https://www.defensie.nl/downloads/beleidsnota-s/2017/06/13/abdo-2017 )
 b.  Civil Service Information Security (Classified Information) Decree 2013 ( Besluit Voorschrift 
Informatiebeveiliging Rijksdienst Bijzondere Informatie 2013 ) 
(http://wetten.overheid.nl/BWBR0033507/2013-06-01 )
 c.  Judicial Data and Criminal Records Act ( Wet justitiële en strafvorderlijke gegevens ) 
(http://wetten.overheid.nl/BWBR0014194/2016-01-01 )
 d.  Police Data Act ( Wet politiegegevens ) 
(http://wetten.overheid.nl/BWBR0022463/2018-05-01 )
 e.  Intelligence and Security Services Act 2017 ( Wet op de Inlichtingen- en veiligheidsdiensten 2017 ) 
(http://wetten.overheid.nl/BWBR0039896/2018-05-01 )
 f.  Security Screening Act ( Wet veiligheidsonderzoeken ) 
(http://wetten.overheid.nl/BWBR0008277/2015-09-01 )
29
Netherlands Code of Conduct for Research Integrity 2018 
|Colophon
Committee for the Revision of the Netherlands Code of Conduct for 
Research Integrity :
Drafting committee 
Prof. Keimpe Algra (Chair) 
Prof. Lex Bouter 
Prof. Antoine Hol 
Dr Jan van Kreveld 
Additional members 
Dr Daan Andriessen 
Prof. Catrien Bijleveld 
Prof. Roberta D’Alessandro 
Prof. Jenny Dankelman 
Prof. Peter Werkhoven
Adviser to the committee
Erik van de Linde MSc (KNAW)
Secretary of the committee
Kim Huijpen MSc together with Danny Groenenberg LLM MSc and 
colleagues (VSNU)
Translation
Taalcentrum-VU, dr Joel Anderson and drafting committee 
Lay-out
Bas van der Horst (BUREAUBAS)
30
| Netherlands Code of Conduct for Research Integrity 2018