Adopted by the Supervisory Board of Van Hall Larenstein University of Applied Sciences on 30 May 2017
Supervisory Board characteristic 2017 -46
  Regulations for the Education, Research and Quality Committee of the Supervisory Board of Van Hall
Larenstein University of Applied Sciences
These regulations were adopted on 30 May 2017 on the basis of Article 8 of the regulations of the Board of
supervision and must be read in conjunction with these regulations.
Article 1 Definitions
These regulations mean:
Board: the Executive Board of the university of applied sciences;
Committee: the Education, Research and Quality Committee of the Council;
University of Applied Sciences: Van Hall Larenstein University of Applied Sciences, a university of applied sciences as referred to in Article 1.8
of the Higher Education and Scientific Research Act maintained by
Van Hall Larenstein Foundation;
Council: supervisory board of the university of applied sciences;
Secretary: the secretary of the Board;
Chairman: the chairman of the committee.
Article 2 Task of the committee
1. The committee has the task of supporting and advising the council by making proposals
to the Board regarding its supervisory function on education, research (including
knowledge valorisation) and quality of the university . In addition, the committee promotes the
exchange of views between the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board in the context of the Supervisory Board's supervision of
aforementioned areas.
2. The committee's proposals include the areas of:
a. quality assurance of education and research in a broad sense;
b. internationalization of education and research.
Article 3 Competence
1. The Committee may, in its sole discretion, make any inquiry it may for the fulfillment of its
perform tasks necessary or desirable and will have unrestricted access to do so
documents and information regarding the university college. The chairman commits to this in advance
consultation with the board.
2. The committee is authorized to obtain advice from third parties or from independent experts and
ensure that these third parties have relevant experience and expertise
insofar as the committee deems necessary.
Article 4 Composition and appointment
1. The committee will consist of at least two members. Every member of the committee is a member of the council.
Neither the chairman of the board, nor any of the former members of the board, is chairman of
the Commision.
2. The members must have expertise and affinity in the field of quality assurance in the
higher education.
3. If a member of the committee has or becomes aware of a circumstance that is reasonable
may impair or affect its independence or the appearance of its independence, it shall
inform the committee immediately. The committee consults with the chairman
of the Board to determine whether there are sufficient grounds for resigning as a member or terminating the membership
committee membership.
4. The committee notes that the university of applied sciences has stated in its management report the composition of the
committee stated.
5. The members of the committee are appointed by the council.
Adopted by the Supervisory Board of Van Hall Larenstein University of Applied Sciences on 30 May 2017
Supervisory Board characteristic 2017 -46
  6. The committee elects a chairman from among its members; if the votes are tied, the council appoints the
chair.
3. and quality of the setting.
Article 5 Meetings
1. The committee meets at least twice a year in accordance with a plan established prior to each year
set grid. In addition, the committee always meets when the chairman or one of her
members deem a meeting necessary or desirable. The chairman of the council and a member of the board
may request the chairman to convene a meeting of the committee.
2. The secretary of the committee is the secretary.
3. Unless the committee decides otherwise, meetings of the committee will be attended by
one or more members of the board.
4. All meetings of the committee are minuted.
Article 6 Reporting to the Board
1. The committee informs the council of the activities of the committee and takes relevant action
recommendations.
2. The committee determines that the composition of the committee, the number of meetings and the
main topics discussed in the report of the Board in the
management report of the university of applied sciences.
Thus adopted by the Supervisory Board of Van Hall Larenstein University of Applied Sciences on 30 May
2017