Windesheim takes your privacy very seriously and treats personal data of its potential students, relations and visitors with the greatest care.

When processing personal data, we comply with the requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation. Windesheim’s Executive Board is responsible for personal data processing by the Stichting Christelijke Hogeschool Windesheim, Campus 2, 8017 CA Zwolle.

Personal data processing 
Windesheim collects your personal data by phone, from (online) application and request forms and through other channels. With your permission we use the collected personal data to provide you with information on study programmes and courses Windesheim is offering. 

Are you on the mailing list? Then you can change your details or unsubscribe through the unsubscribe link in every mailing.

Have you signed up for an activity, event or similar type of meeting, or do you use an app developed by Windesheim? In that case we are using your personal data solely for the intended purpose, including our operational processes, communication about the activity, performance and evaluation of the activity, invoicing and financial accounting.

We will remove your personal data within two years after the purpose has ceased to be valid, unless this data is subject to a longer statutory retention period, or unless you have granted permission for longer-term processing.

Data provision to third parties 
We do not provide your data to third parties, unless our service provision to you necessitates this. Your data is not lent, rented out or sold, nor published in any other way.

Your rights 
You are entitled to inspection of your personal data and may, if necessary, request Windesheim to correct or remove them, or to have them protected for further use. You are also free at all times to withdraw your previously granted permission to process your personal data. A request for inspection of your personal data should be sent to onderwijsjuristen@windesheim.nl(opens in new tab). 

Privacy statements for students and course participants 

Privacy statement for students
Privacy statement for course participants
Contact  
Do you have any questions or comments in regard to this privacy statement? Please get in touch with us by post, phone or email, at the address below:

Windesheim
Campus 2 
8017 CA Zwolle

Phone: +31 88 469 99 11 
info@windesheim.nl(opens in new tab)

Windesheim has its own data protection officer (‘FG’). Any complaints may be addressed to the FG(opens in new tab) (A.M.Polderdijk-Rijntjes).

Modification of this privacy statement 
Windesheim reserves the right to modify this privacy statement. Any modifications will be published on this page, which was last updated 23 February 2021.

Privacy statements of third parties 

This privacy statement does not apply to any third-party websites hyperlinked to (any of) the Windesheim website(s). Windesheim accepts no responsibility or liability whatsoever for the manner in which such third parties deal with personal data.