Your personal data and your privacy
The Amsterdam School of the Arts (hereinafter: AHK) is an umbrella organization for art education in Amsterdam. The Amsterdam School of the Arts consists of the following 6 academies: Breitner Academy, Conservatorium van Amsterdam, Netherlands Film Academy, Reinwardt Academy, Academy of Theater and Dance and the Academy of Architecture. In addition, the Amsterdam School of the Arts offers a master's degree in Art Education. Finally, the academies are supported by a Service Bureau.

The AHK handles your personal data with care in accordance with the requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). In this Privacy Statement, the AHK informs you about how the AHK handles your personal data and what your rights are.

Processing of personal data

The AHK can be regarded as the party responsible for processing the personal data and special personal data of the students and employees associated with the AHK within the meaning of the GDPR. If your data is processed by one of the aforementioned academies, master's programs or Service Bureau, then this processing falls under the responsibility of the Amsterdam University of the Arts.

Purposes

Our organization processes personal data in order to provide good education, to prepare and to settle financially. Furthermore, specific processing may be necessary, for example to supervise special situations in a student's study career or to comply with legal obligations. In addition, we process your data to implement and improve our services, to compile user statistics and to improve our websites.

We mainly process personal data of students and employees. We process data from students of the AHK to:

process registrations for training, courses or meetings;
recruit and select students;
register and process study results, study advice, study progress, study counselling, study support and related information; 
to teach;
provide learning materials and make learning materials or facilities available;
calculate, record and collect tuition fees;
publish and promote students and their (graduation) work;
facilitate accreditations;
handle disputes;
to perform audits;
perform applicable legal duties;
research, evaluate and improve the quality of education;
to ensure health, safety and security;
organization analyzes and management reports.
Data from employees of the AHK is processed by us to:

handle job applications;
appoint or contract employees;
comply with employment law obligations;
promote the performance of employees;
provide resources and make resources or facilities available;
handle claims for benefits related to termination of employment;
handle disputes;
to perform audits;
perform applicable legal duties;
research, evaluate and improve the quality of education;
organize company medical care;
to ensure health, safety and security;
organization analyzes and management reports.
The personal data will only be used by the AHK for the purposes mentioned above. For other purposes, your permission is explicitly requested.

Types of personal data

The following personal data and special personal data can be processed by AHK:


Name and address details (surname, first names, initials, titles, address, zip code, place of residence), telephone number, e-mail address, date and place of birth, citizen service number, copy of proof of identity, nationality, gender, passport photo, IBAN;
personal data or special personal data that are necessary for proper guidance of students and staff with regard to health and well-being;
insurance details of employees and students;
if applicable, the date of death of the person concerned;
other data collected via cameras that are visible in the buildings and on the grounds of AHK or whose presence has been made known;
other legally required personal data based on specific legislation (e.g. Higher Education and Scientific Research Act (WHW), Tax Act, Compulsory Identification Act, Gatekeeper Improvement Act, etc.).
Specifically for students:

student number, correspondence number Ministry of Education, Culture and Science (OCW), previous education diploma, any certificates;
form of enrollment and/or status of prospective student (applicant);
study data and study progress data (year of registration, study programmes, study phase, form of study);
data concerning the nature and progress of the study, as well as the study progress results and data concerning study supervision and support;
debtor data of students and data regarding student finance;
decisions regarding termination of enrollment, expulsion, suspension or other action;
date on which those who have not been awarded a final examination certificate have left the AHK; 
date of obtaining the certificate of the final examination;
most recently completed previous education that gives access to higher education, stating the subject package;
year in which the diploma associated with the previous education was obtained;
and of the parents, guardians or caretakers of students and course participants: name and address details, telephone number, e-mail address, place of birth, nationality.
Specifically for employees:

personnel number, position, responsibilities and authorities, presence, assessment with assessment criteria, salary, training;
and for hired employees: contract agreements, Chamber of Commerce number.
In addition to the above list, student counselors and other confidential advisers process data of a personal and individual nature, whether or not directly related to the educational process. What is recorded always takes place with the permission of the student and is only accessible to the relevant student counselor or confidential adviser and to the student concerned.

Data Protection Officer

The Amsterdam University of the Arts has a Data Protection Officer (hereinafter: FG) who ensures that the processing of personal data by AHK is in accordance with the GDPR. The DPO of the AHK is registered with the Dutch Data Protection Authority. The statutory duties and powers give this officer an independent role in the organisation. The role of FG is currently performed in a duo position by:

Mr. F. A. Kuipers
Mr. HGA Prince
You can reach the DPO via email: privacy@ahk.nl

Your right to inspect, correct and delete personal data

If you have a relationship with the AHK, you have the option, after a written request, to receive a statement of the personal data that we process and manage about you. If the overview provided by us contains inaccuracies, you can request us in writing to change the data or have it removed (whereby the AHK is bound by the personal data of the Education Executive Agency (DUO), based on the data in the Personal Records Database (BRP) of your place of residence.

In the event of a request to delete data, the AHK will endeavor to delete the data insofar as this is technically and legally possible (for example, the AHK is obliged to retain certain information on the basis of the Archives Act).

If you wish to make use of one of these rights, you can submit a request to this effect to our Data Protection Officer via e-mail address privacy@ahk.nl . You can also contact us here if you have any questions about your privacy or your rights.

Provision to third parties

The AHK may use service providers for the processing of personal data, who act as processors exclusively on behalf of and on behalf of the AHK. Processors work on the basis of a processing agreement concluded for this purpose. Otherwise, personal data will not be provided to third parties, unless the AHK is required to do so by virtue of specific legislation. Your personal data will not be rented, sold or otherwise shared with or provided to third parties.

The AHK ensures that personal data is only processed or managed within the European Area and not outside it. Only in situations in which there are no reasonable alternatives and the country meets the requirements set by the European Commission can the AHK choose to have specific processing take place outside the EEA. The AHK only provides personal data to countries outside the EEA in a few cases. This happens in the following situations: for the purpose of communication with foreign students who are going to study at the AHK, students of the AHK who are studying abroad, the employment of employees outside the EEA and in the context of scientific research.

Retention periods

The personal data of students and employees will not be kept longer than is required or necessary to achieve the purposes for which the data was collected. We use the retention periods of the Selection List for the administrative record of the Association of Universities of Applied Sciences.

Security of personal data

The AHK - together with any processors - ensures appropriate organizational and technical security of personal data. In this way we ensure that this data is only accessible to persons who are authorized to do so by virtue of their position or task and that the data is only used for the purposes for which it was obtained and on the basis of a legal basis.

The AHK applies appropriate security technologies to optimally protect your personal data against unauthorized access or unauthorized use. We will report any (attempted) abuse. The AHK also takes organizational measures to protect personal data against access by unauthorized persons. The AHK is constantly working to raise awareness among staff and students about working safely with personal data.

CCTV

The AHK protects your safety and property through camera surveillance in the buildings, among other things. The images from these cameras are carefully handled and stored. Camera images are automatically destroyed after four weeks unless the images must be retained in connection with an observed incident.

Procedure to report data leaks

The AHK has a procedure for reporting and handling data breaches. More information can be found at: https://www.ahk.nl/informatiesecurity/data leaks /

cookies

We use 'cookies' when offering electronic services. These are small files that are sent along with the pages of this website and are stored by your browser on your computer. With the help of cookies, preferences and interests based on surfing behavior can be remembered and used on a subsequent visit.

More information about how AHK uses cookies can be found at: https://www.ahk.nl/cookies/ 

Hyperlinks

Our websites contain hyperlinks to third party websites. AHK is not responsible for the content of these websites and is also not responsible for the privacy policy and the use of cookies on these websites. Read the privacy statement of the relevant website to see what they do with your personal data.

Amendments

The AHK reserves the right to make changes to the Privacy Statement. Changes will be published on the website.

Questions, comments or complaints

The AHK appreciates your questions and comments regarding this Privacy Statement. If you believe that this Privacy Statement is not being complied with or if you have a complaint about the use of your personal data by the AHK or if you wish to submit a request to exercise your rights as a data subject, you can contact the DPO directly via the email address: privacy@ahk.nl .

Under the GDPR, you also have the right to submit a complaint to the Dutch Data Protection Authority about our processing of your personal data. You can contact the Dutch Data Protection Authority for this.

