Privacy statement
Tio University of Applied Sciences has always been seriously concerned with privacy and your personal data. It is important to Tio that your data is properly protected. And with every contact Tio has with you, you have the opportunity to easily unsubscribe.
If you would like more information about the protection of your personal data, I invite you to read further below.

In summary
Tio takes the privacy of you and all its (potential) students, parents, deans and applicants seriously. When processing personal data, Tio and its employees comply with the requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). Tio and its employees therefore treat your personal data confidentially and with care. And at the same time want to ensure that our service is as personal as possible.

This privacy policy applies to all personal data collected and used by Tio. These data are personal data provided by you, but also information about visits to our website, registration for newsletters, requests via the website and data via study choice sites and fairs.

Below you can read how Tio handles your personal details:
What information is collected?
Tio collects your personal data via (online) application forms, (online) registration forms, the website, study choice sites, education fairs and fairs at schools. This concerns name, address details,e-mail adress and preferences. With your consent, Tio uses the collected data to inform you about study programmes at Tio. Do you no longer appreciate receiving this information? Unsubscribe on the unsubscribe page or send an e-mail to info@tio.nl.

If you have a subscription to our e-mail newsletter, you have the option to change your data via the newsletter or to unsubscribe.

Cookies
In addition to the above mentioned information, Tio collects cookies. Cookies are small text files which are stored on your computer, tablet and mobile phone when you visit certain web pages. Cookies do not contain personal data of the user. They only remember the preferences and interests based on the browsing behaviour of the device. Tio uses these cookies to improve your user experience. Read more about our cookie policy.

Website visit
On the website, Tio uses Google Analytics cookies for analytical purposes. In respects to your privacy, Tio has signed a processing agreement with Google for this. The last part of your IP address is masked, allowing you to surf anonymously on our website. In addition, Tio does not share data with Google, because data sharing is set to off. Tio does not use other Google services in combination with the Google Analytics cookies.

Requests via web forms
Data collected via the website forms (including application for a study guide, application for an open day, application for a ‘student for a day’ day and personal / financial interview) are used to send you the requested information or to confirm the registration. Furthermore, the data is also used to keep you informed, in certain cases to a maximum of 3 years after your request, about your preferred study programme(s) and to offer you help with your study choice. 
If you do not appreciate this anymore, you can unsubscribe via the unsubscribe page for mail and/or e-mail.

Registration for a Tio programme
The data that is requested during the registration for a bachelor, associate degree of master programme at Tio will only be used to process your application for registration. After acceptance, the data is transferred to the central student administration.

Education fairs and information sessions
Tio collects contact details at educational fairs and information sessions at schools in order to keep you informed about your preferred study programme(s) and to offer you help with your study choice, in certain cases to a maximum of 1 year after your request. 
If you do not appreciate this anymore, you can unsubscribe via the unsubscribe page for mail and/or e-mail.

Data provision to third parties
Tio will not make your data available to third parties, unless this is necessary for the performance of our services to you. And in those cases, your data is protected by the agreement that Tio has concluded with the third party. For example, the party that sends mail items to you. Your data will not be rented or sold, nor made public in any other way.

Privacy officer
Marten BusstraTio has appointed a privacy officer. For questions about the privacy policy, complaints or comments please can contact Marten Busstra.

Your rights
You are entitled to access to your data and you can ask Tio to correct your data, to remove it or to have it shielded for further use. You also have the right to revoke permission for processing at any time, this can be done via this page. You can send a request for inspection to info@tio.nl.

Change this privacy statement
Tio reserves the right to change this privacy statement. Keeping in mind that your data must always remain fully protected in accordance with the legal frameworks. This page was last modified on July 22, 2021.

Privacy statement from third parties
This privacy statement does not apply to websites of third parties that are connected to the website(s) of Tio by means of links. Tio does not accept any responsibility and liability with regard to the way in which these third parties handle personal data.

