Privacy statement
Aeres handles your data with care. Below we explain how we do this.

Cookies, or comparable techniques
A cookie is a small file that is stored on the hard disk of your computer. Aeres makes use of cookies on its websites. The law allows us to store cookies on your device if they are strictly necessary. That is why this option is already checked. For all other types of cookies, we need your permission. This permission concerns the use of marketing and statistics cookies. This enables us to tailor our information to you.

It sometimes happens that cookies are collected via third-party media, such as when watching a YouTube video that is shown via our site. Aeres is not responsible for the content of third-party websites.

You can also block and delete cookies yourself via your internet browser. You can also configure your Internet browser so that you receive a message when a cookie is placed. You can also indicate that certain cookies should not be placed. For this option, please consult the help function of your browser. Deleting cookies in your browser may have consequences for the use of this website.

Visual material
During events and school activities of Aeres, we sometimes make visual material that can be placed on our website or social media. These are always general images (no close-ups). If you object to a photo on the website, please send a message to fg@aeres.nl.

Students and other stakeholders
When you come to study at Aeres, or when Aeres provides services to you, we will need data from you. Here is how we do that and what we do with your data. All personal data that we need from you will be carefully processed in accordance with the applicable legislation (General Data Protection Regulation).

Personal data that we process
If you study with us, we will need personal data from you for various purposes. This may include, for example

name and contact details
education and registration details
work placement and BPV data
data on your study progress
special and sensitive personal data
ICT data
photographs and video footage
We only collect data that is necessary for the education you receive and/or the services we provide to you.

What we use your personal data for
We may need your details, for example, in order to:

providing study advice;
concluding an Education Agreement (OOK) and/or a Practical Agreement (POK);
accountability to DUO, the Education Inspectorate and the accountant;
the purchase of teaching materials;
providing your education (lessons, tests, progress, attendance registration);
the collection of fees, lesson charges;
processing for alumni purposes;
using and managing our ICT facilities;
announcing education-related activities;
handling disputes;
creating an access pass.
Who can see your data
Our employees have access to your data where necessary for the execution of our agreement. Sometimes we pass on personal data to third parties. This will only happen within the framework of the education agreement and Aeres' objectives as an educational institution, for example

to third parties if this is necessary for the execution of our agreement;
to the government in order to comply with a statutory obligation;
to other persons to whom you have given your unambiguous consent.
We conclude a so-called processor's agreement with companies that we hire to process your personal data (for example, applications in the cloud such as the Eduarte education portal or the Elo ). This is required by law and it also gives us the means to ensure that the processing takes place in a safe way that respects your privacy.

We do not sell your personal data to third parties.

How we protect personal data
We take the utmost care to protect your data and take generally accepted, appropriate security measures to prevent misuse, loss, unauthorised access and unauthorised changes. We constantly check our measures against the requirements of the auditor. We also coordinate these issues with other educational institutions.

See for more information: MBO Digitaal (Dutch) and SCIPR (Dutch).

Retention and destruction
We destroy your personal data when we no longer need them for the purpose for which we collected them. We do this on the basis of retention agreements made for the education sector. These also include agreements for personal data for which a legally required retention period applies.

Viewing, amending or deleting data
You have the right to inspect the data that we collect about you, to have it changed or, in some situations, to have it deleted. To do so, please send an e-mail to fg@aeres.nl. We will respond to such requests as quickly as possible, but at the latest within four weeks.

Questions
Aeres reserves the right to modify this privacy statement. For questions regarding our privacy approach, please contact our Data Protection Officer, Mrs M. de Boer, at fg@aeres.nl.

