Research policy
The Hague University of Applied Science bases its research policy on five ambitions:
1. Education: an improved exchange and compatibility between research and education. 
An improved connection between education and research can strengthen education in three ways: improved curricula of studies, enhanced research skills of students and further professionalisation of the teaching staff. Lectors play an important role in this development whereas the management staff of the study, the researching personnel bear the responsibility together with these lectors. Additionally, the quality of research is also improved by the connection with education. Every study programme is connected to at least one Centre of Expertise.
2. Professional practice and broader society: a better inclusion of professional practice in research and society. 
Through research on the seven central theme’s, THUAS directly contributes to innovation of the professional world and society. There is room for improvement on this front, both on regional and national level as well as in an international dimension. For this reason, THUAS is constantly looking for the right strategical partners given the subject of research in both the private sector as well as by cooperating with other knowledge institutes. Moreover, we strive for more international orientation of research in unison with partners in for example China, Brazil and our European context.
3. Focus: developing further on our subjects of expertise and directing research in that direction. 
The focus of research is made in the light of the seven Centres of Expertise. Further specialisation remains a challenge and objective.
4. Mass: expanding the volume of produced research. 
THUAS strives to have 1 fte lector for every 720 students in 2024 given the strategic agenda by the Ministry of Education, Culture and Science (OCW). Every 1fte lector needs on average 4 fte (teaching-)researchers, among which PhD-students. This expansion of research volume is partly funded by external means, in 2025 this is projected to be 40%.
5. Quality: strengthening and embedding the quality of research. 
Investing in quality is necessary for research and education. The starting point in this context is that the research is practically relevant, methodologically sound and ethically responsible. All our practise-oriented research has been successfully reviewed in 2019 and 2020. Our periodic quality monitoring process is continually updated based on the most recent insights. Also, there are a variety of different professionalisation programmes active on different levels in the organisation that aim to support the quality of research professionals. Lastly, the governance surrounding research is regularly evaluated and adjusted if so needed.
Research Board
In October 2019, The Hague University of Applied Sciences established a Research Board (an independent advisory board with five external members). This was initiated as a result of the ambitions in the overarching ambitions document ‘Onderzoek Versterkt’ (Research Strengthens). The Research Board advises both the Board of Directions when it is tasked to make important decisions of a strategic nature and the Centre’s of Expertise when making the multi-annual strategic plans.

Feel free to contact the temporary secretary of the Research Board Jeanieke Kuijper if you have any questions about what the Research Board could mean for you.

