Privacy statement
Stichting HAS Opleidingen / HAS Education Foundation (hereafter: HAS green academy) respects the privacy of students, course participants, members of staff, prospective students, prospective course participants, visitors and professional partners involved in the education, research, knowledge transfer and company training at HAS green academy. We only process personal data that is necessary for the proper execution of our tasks as a Dutch institute of higher education.


The principles
Personal data are data relating to an identified or identifiable natural person. We process personal data in accordance with the relevant laws and regulations, and in a proper and careful manner. In doing so, we ensure an appropriate balance between our interests and your interests as an involved party to make your own choices about your personal data.

HAS green academy, located at Onderwijsboulevard 221 5223 DE, ‘s-Hertogenbosch, The Netherlands, is responsible for the processing of personal data as mentioned in this privacy statement.

Contact details
Onderwijsboulevard 221
5223 DE ‘s-Hertogenbosch
The Netherlands
Tel.: +31 (0)888 903 600
www.has.nl/en


The Data Protection Officer for HAS green academy can be contacted by sending an email to: privacy@has.nl

The purposes for which we process personal data
For students and course participants
HAS green academy processes personal data of its students and course participants in order to meet its obligations as an educational institution, namely to be able to offer students and course participants the best possible education and support them in their learning process. This is reflected in the following activities that we carry out, for example:

Organising, planning and carrying out education, research, company training and knowledge transfer
Supervising students and course participants
Informing students and course participants about relevant matters concerning the facilities for studying and for the students in general, educational matters or other subjects related to HAS green academy
Reacting to your questions
Handling complaints, objections or disputes
Improving the quality of our education and the service we provide
Calculating, recording and collecting any outstanding payments
Carrying out administration and other internal management activities
Fulfilling our statutory obligations, for example regarding administration and storage of data
Arranging and carrying out the administration for traineeships and company assignments
Sending our newsletters and other communications
Tracking your surfing behaviour over various websites to enable us to tune our products and services to your needs
For Alumni
HAS green academy processes your personal data in order to be able to continue to carry out its educational task in the best possible way and to keep you informed of all relevant developments. We value our alumni are the bridge to business and the professional field for which we prepare our students. In addition, we believe it is important for HAS green academy that our alumni stay involved with the university and with each other.

In this context, we carry out the following activities, for example:

Sending out questionnaires
Sending our newsletters
Sending invitations to various activities
We may also approach you regarding field research or other questions in relation to the study programmes
If you would prefer to no longer receive mailings or newsletters from us, you can simply unsubscribe by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of the relevant mailing or newsletter.


For prospective students and prospective course participants
HAS green academy processes your personal data in order to be able to provide you with the information requested about our programmes and courses. We can also send you mailings about our educational activities.

If you would prefer to no longer receive mailings or newsletters from us, you can simply unsubscribe by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of the relevant mailing or newsletter.


For members of staff
Please refer to the Employees Privacy Statement on the HAS green academy Intranet.


For 3rd parties
(This includes contact persons from, for example, collaboration platforms, suppliers, other educational institutions, research institutions and partner companies.)
HAS green academy processes your data in order to comply with an agreement or to keep you informed of our activities and developments. In this context, HAS green academy may inform you by means of mailings and newsletters about matters that are relevant to you.

If you would prefer to no longer receive mailings or newsletters from us, you can simply unsubscribe by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of the relevant mailing or newsletter.