DESIGN ACADEMY EINDHOVEN    
PRIVACY ST ATEMENT
april 2019
AS DESIGN ACADEMY EINDHOVEN (DAE), WE 
RESPECT AND PROTECT THE PRIVACY OF ANYONE INVOLVED IN OUR ORGANISATION. WE 
TREAT THE PERSONAL DATA ENTRUSTED TO US 
WITH THE GREATEST CARE AND TRANSPARENCY. WE THEREFORE TAKE ORGANISATIONAL AND TECHNOLOGICAL MEASURES TO PREVENT 
ANY BREACH OF PRIVACY FOR (POTENTIAL) 
STUDENTS, ALUMNI, (FORMER) EMPLOYEES, APPLICANTS, EXTERNALS AND GUESTS.
RIGHTS
With this statement we provide clarity on your rights with 
regard to DAE processing your personal data. As the owner of your personal data (person involved) you have the following rights based on the General Data Protection 
Regulation (Dutch AVG): 
• the right to inspection: you can exercise this directly as a student through consulting the Student Information System (Trajectplanner through onderwijsonline.nl). All other persons involved can submit a request through 
privacy@designacademy.nl;
• the right to amend incorrect data (rectification): as a 
student you can also exercise this right directly through correcting your information/having your information 
corrected in Trajectplanner. In most cases, you can 
do this yourself through Studielink. If you want to have other data amended, you can submit a request through privacy@designacademy.nl. Design Academy Eindhoven cannot deviate from the information 
recorded at DUO (Education Executive Agency) or in 
the GBA (Municipal Personal Records Database);
• the right to oblivion (deleting personal data): you can submit a request through privacy@designacademy.nl 
to have your (superfluous) personal data deleted from 
the DAE systems. A request cannot be granted if DAE has a retention obligation. If the processing of personal data took place based on your permission, you can always withdraw your permission;
• the right to objection to the processing: you can object through privacy@designacademy.nl if you believe that the processing of your personal data is unjustified; 
• the right to limitation of the processing: if you have 
submitted a request for rectification or deletion, or have 
submitted an objection, you can request the temporary halt of the processing, 
• the right to data transfer (data portability): you can submit a request through privacy@designacademy.
nl to obtain your personal data, or have DAE transfer 
them to another institution. This is only possible if the processing takes place on the basis of permission or based on an agreement. BASIC PREMISES
DAE adheres to the basic premises (principles) the AVG prescribes:
Legitimate, respectable and transparent
Your data may only be processed if this has justified objectives that also have a statutory basis. The data must 
be processed properly and carefully. As a person involved, 
you are entitled to know what we do with your data and which rights you can exercise. This privacy statement, inter alia, is an implementation of this.
Purpose limitation
The personal data we process must have a specified, explicit and specific purpose. They may be used for this purpose, and only also for another purpose if these 
purposes are comparable.
Minimum detail processing
In the processing of your data the quantity and type of data remains limited to data that are required to obtain the 
intended purpose of the processing.
Accurate 
Your data must be correct and up-to-date. Outdated or 
incorrect data must be removed. 
Retention limitation
The data may no longer be retained than is necessary for the purpose to be obtained. If data are no longer 
necessary, they must be removed. We abide by the 
applicable retention and destruction deadlines.
Integrity and confidentiality
The data must be properly protected and remain 
confidential. They are protected against unauthorised, unlawful processing and loss, theft or damage according to the applicable security standards.
PROCESSING TYPES AND THEIR PURPOSES
An overview of the most important processes for which your data are collected are shown below (in a point-
by-point list). All data are of importance for the proper 
execution of our statutory tasks and obligations for education and research. 
Education and educational support
Bachelor, Master and International
Application and registration, assessment and recording results, student support, counselling and deanship, providing entry badge and student card, schedules and 
group overview, dealing with disputes.
1DESIGN ACADEMY EINDHOVEN    
PRIVACY ST ATEMENT
april 2019
Research
Conducting research and maintaining contact with partners and contacts.
Finance and operation
Financial administration, general management, purchasing, access and security, camera surveillance, mail handling, IT 
and facilities management.
Human Resources
Implementing the employment contract, paying the salary, recruiting personnel, supporting sick employees and 
education.
Communication and customer relationship 
management
Promotion of student, graduate and alumnus work through 
placing and distributing press releases, announcements and photographs of the person involved, customer relationship management, positioning and promotion of DAE, cooperation with commerce, sending e-press 
releases.
The personal data are only used for the purposes mentioned above. If DAE wants to process personal data for other purposes and there is no other basis for 
processing, your permission will be requested. Within that 
scope, you will be informed of the specific objective and the retention term. You can always retract your permission. 
PERSONAL DATA CATEGORIES
DAE processes normal, sensitive and special personal data for the objectives above. 
Normal personal data are for instance name, address, 
place of residence, email. 
Sensitive personal data are for instance study results, 
your financial data and your BSN (citizen service number) and bank account number. 
Special personal data are for instance data about your 
(physical and mental) health, genetic or biometric data, religion. 
DAE does not process special personal data, unless it is 
obliged to do so due to a statutory requirement or with permission from the persons involved for the Dean’s office and study counselling. 
DAE processes sensitive personal data for specific 
objectives, such as academic results for monitoring academic progress and financial data for accounts 
receivable or salary administration.
In addition, we annually ask for your permission to 
produce and distribute visual material in which you can be recognised.PROCESSING PRINCIPLES 
DAE processes all personal data it has from the persons involved on the basis of statutory provisions. These are 
described below: 
On the basis of:• The implementation of an (education) agreement entered into with you. 
• Statutory obligations, such as keeping student administration records.
• General interest, such as scientific research.
• A justified interest, such as promotional activities.
• Your explicit permission for processing, such as for 
taking pictures and making video footage in which you 
can be recognised.
RECIPIENTS OF PERSONAL DATA 
DAE may have other organisations process personal data. In that case a processing agreement is entered into. This contains the agreements that guarantee your privacy rights. DAE provides personal data to, inter alia: • government bodies (e.g. DUO, Studielink, IND, Dutch 
tax authorities); 
• the SIS supplier;
• the accountant; 
• NUFFIC, studiekeuze 123; 
• Partner institutions at home and abroad, where relevant 
for you. 
SECURITY AND ACCESS
We have taken technological and organisational security 
measures to prevent personal data from being processed 
by unauthorised parties. Our computerisation processes have, inter alia, been set for personal access. 
COMPLAINTS  
If you think that DAE does not adhere to the privacy regulations and/or its  privacy policy properly, you can ask for more information or submit a complaint with the DAE’s Data Protection Officer (Dutch FG), who can be contacted 
through privacy@designacademy.nl. 
You can also do so if you are not satisfied with the handling of a request or objection by DAE.This officer is an independent internal supervisor of 
your privacy protection. The FG officer reports directly 
to the Board. The FG officer has been registered with the regulator under number FG007929. You can also submit a complaint to the regulator, the Autoriteit Persoonsgegevens (Personal Data Authority) through 
www.autoriteitpersoonsgegevens.nl. They will investigate 
and rule on the complaint.
DISCLAIMER
These Regulations are translated into English. If there is a dispute about the interpretation of the Regulations, the Dutch version of the Regulations will be decisive.
2