Privacy policy

Privacy policy
University of the Arts The Hague Privacy Policy
Introduction

This privacy policy applies to the services provided by the University of the Arts The Hague. Please be aware that the University of the Arts The Hague is not responsible for the privacy policy of other websites and sources. Continued use of this website implies acceptance of this privacy policy. The University of the Arts The Hague respects the privacy of all users of its site and ensures that the personal information you provide is dealt with confidentially. The University of the Arts The Hague makes use of software to analyse the number and behaviour of visitors to its web pages. This is done on the basis of your IP address (Internet Protocol address). We do this to be able to improve the available information as much as possible as well as the way in which it is provided. The software does not analyse who you are and is only used for the purpose described above. The University of the Arts The Hague exercises due care when processing data provided by visitors to its website(s). Personal data will only be stored if that serves a reasonable purpose. This data will be stored securely. In doing so, the University of the Arts The Hague adheres closely to the requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).

We consider it our responsibility to protect your privacy. This page contains information on what data we collect when you use our website, why we collect this data and how we use it to improve your user experience.


Use of our services
When you register for one of our services, we will ask you for some personal details. These details will be used to enable us to perform the service. The details are stored on secure servers belonging to the University of the Arts The Hague or on those of our suppliers, Digital Natives and True. We will not combine these details with other personal information we hold.


Communication
When you send us email or other messages, we may store these messages. Sometimes we will ask you for personal details that are relevant to the situation in question. That makes it easier to process your questions and respond to your requests. The details are stored on secure servers belonging to the University of the Arts The Hague or on those of our suppliers. We will not combine these details with other personal information we hold.


Cookies
We collect data for research in order to find out more about our clients, so that we can refine our services to meet their needs.

This website makes use of “cookies” (text files) which are placed on your computer to help the website analyse how users use the site. The information generated by the cookie about your use of the website can be transferred to the secure servers belonging to the University of the Arts The Hague or those of our suppliers.

We use this information to track how you use the website, to compile reports on website activity and to offer other services relating to website activity and internet use.

Most browsers are routinely set up to accept cookies, but you can reconfigure your browser to refuse all cookies or to notify you when a cookie is sent. It is however possible that some functionality and services on our website and on other websites may not work correctly if cookies are turned off in your browser.

More information in our Cookie policy


Purposes
We do not collect or use any information for purposes other than those described in this privacy policy, unless we have obtained your prior permission.


Third parties
The information will not be shared with third parties. The information may occasionally be shared internally. Our employees are obliged to respect the confidentiality of your data.


Changes
This privacy statement is tailored to the use and features of this site. Any modifications and/or changes to this site may lead to changes to this privacy statement. It is therefore advisable to check this privacy statement regularly.


Access to personal data
All visitors have the right to access, change or remove any personal information they have provided to us to date.

Updating/unsubscribing from newsletter
The footer under bulk email messages contains an option for updating your details or unsubscribing.
Updating/unsubscribing from communication
If you wish to update your details or remove yourself from our database, please contact us. See our contact details.
Extended information about how the University of the Arts deals with privacy and information security can be found on the HdK website.