Privacy Notices at Wittenborg University of Applied Sciences
Wittenborg University of Applied Sciences needs to collect and process personal data in order to provide services to students, manage its operations effectively, and meet legal requirements.

The privacy notices below set out how we use your personal data.

Privacy notice for enquirers
When you first contact us to ask a question about the university or our courses, we will create a record in your name. We will add information to this record whenever you contact us, so that we can respond to your enquiries and offer you appropriate services.

Privacy notice for prospective students
When you book to come to an open day, request a prospectus, meet us at a Higher Education or Study in Holland fair, or register for updates from us, we will create a record in your name. We will add information to this record whenever you contact us, so that we can respond to your enquiries and offer you appropriate services.  You can also opt in to receiving extra information about Wittenborg University of Applied Sciences.

Privacy notice for applicants
When you accept an offer of a place to study at Wittenborg University of Applied Sciences, we will collect and use more information about you in connection with your application and future study.

Website privacy notice
In using www.wittenborg.eu, the university collects data about you – this helps us determine the usefulness of our website and to see how effective it is. When you browse our websites, we also collect and use IP addresses and device identifiers to identify the location of users, to block disruptive use, to establish the number of visits from different countries, and to determine whether you are accessing the services from the Netherlands or not.

Staff privacy notice
Wittenborg University of Applied Sciences is committed to protecting the privacy and security of your personal information.

This privacy notice describes how we collect and use personal information about you during recruitment, and during and after your working relationship with us in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR).

This privacy notice applies to all employees, workers and contractors.

Download the WUAS Staff privacy notice(pdf).

Privacy notice for students
This privacy notice applies to you if you have ever enrolled or registered to study at Wittenborg University of Applied Sciences, including undergraduate students, postgraduate students, research students, apprentices and those registered on Continuing Professional Development modules and courses.

We may collect additional information for those cohorts of students on courses regulated by professional and regulatory bodies, apprentices and non EEU students with immigration considerations affecting their right to study. You will be given specific information about how your personal data is processed when you apply, register, or enrol to study.

When you apply to Wittenborg University of Applied Sciences, we create a record in your name, with a unique student number, login id and university email address. To that record we add information that you give us when registering or enrolling and throughout your studies. We keep records of your participation in learning activities and your use of other services we offer, e.g. disability services and employability services.

The university is committed to being transparent about how it collects and uses that data and to meeting its data protection obligations.

Download the Student privacy notice (pdf).